### Non-mob entities
** Boat with Chest **
- Function similarly tominecart with chests, but in boats instead, so player can take a journey on the water and carry things.
- Crafted by combining achestwith anyboat.
- Opening its inventory or breaking it will make nearby adultpiglinsangry.
- Breaking it drops itself (as opposed to aminecart with chest, which splits into its components), and all its items.
- Can hold only one entity.

### Gameplay
** Effects **
- Darkness
	- A status effect triggered by thesculk shrieker, causing the player's camera to dim in brightness, thus limiting the vision of players.
	- Lowers the gamma down at an equivalent of “Moody” while having this effect.

** Enchanting **
- Added theSwift Sneakenchantment.
	- Has three levels.
	- Can only be applied onleggings.
	- Allow the player to walk faster while sneaking, up to 75% of normal speed at level III.
	- Currently cannot be obtained in survival.

### General
** Options **
- A new accessibility slider has been added in the options menu called “Darkness Pulsing”.
	- It controls how dark the Darkness effect gets when a Warden orSculk Shriekergives it to the player.

** Particles **
- Added a new particle:shriek.

** Tags **
- Added thechest_boatsitem tag.
	- Contains all types ofboat with chests.
- Added thewarden_events_can_listengame event tag.
	- Contains the contents of the#vibrationsevent tag (exceptflap),sculk_sensor_tendrils_clicking, andshriek.

## Changes
### Blocks
** Leaves **
- Leaves are now waterloggable.
- Mangrove leaves is now compostable.

** Sculk Catalyst **
- Can no longer generatesculk shriekers.

** Sculk Sensor **
- Now always activate when stepped on, even when sneaking.

** Sculk Shrieker **
- Added functionality.
	- Has the ability to "shriek", emitting ring-like/sonic particles.
	- Is activated by asculk sensor,redstonesignal or player's stepping.
		- Sculk shriekerssummonwardensonly if there isn't one within 48 blocks.
	- Gives players the Darkness effect when activated.
	- If activated three times, a warden is summoned from the ground.
		- Player has 4 levels ofwarning_level(0-3), everytime activated, the levels increased by 1, and never decrease.
		- If a player had successfully summoned a warden, only one attempt is required to summon a warden next time.
- Currently does not drop when broken, even when usingsilk touch.

### Items
** Boats **
- Changed item textures of all boats, except mangrove.
	- Now their paddles represent their respective wood color and their inside rims of the boats are darker, to matchBedrock Edition.
		- But the oak boat item texture inJava EditionandBedrock Editionstill have differences.

### Mobs
** Parrots **
- Can now imitatewardens.

### World generation
** Deep Dark **
- Now less flooded than surrounding areas.

### Command format
** /locatebiome **
- Now searches in 3D properly, which means it will locate cave biomes correctly.
- Now returns all three coordinates in the output.

### General
** Debug Keys **
- Removed debug hotkey cycling render distance (F3+F).

** Particles **
- The parameters to thevibrationparticle have changed: instead of specifying the start position as an extra parameter, the regular source of the particle is now used.

** Shaders **
- There are now shader files for translucent entity rendering.

** Tags **
- Mangrove boat and the#chest_boatsitem tag are now part of the#boatsitem tag.
- Mangrove leaves is now part of the#mineable/hoeblock tag.


