### Helping bees work
See also: Flowers

Similar to villagers, bees follow their own schedule. During the day in clear weather, bees leave their beehive or bee nest and wander around in search of flowers. When a bee finds a flower, it hovers over the flower for a short time to collect pollen, changing its appearance, after which it heads back to the hive. The pollen-laden bee enters the hive and works for 2 minutes, and then if it is still daytime and the weather is clear, it exits the hive to repeat the process. When night falls or the weather is rainy or stormy, bees return to their hives regardless of whether they have collected pollen.

As long as bees have a beehive to live in and access to flowers, they are perfectly fine working in the dreary environment of The Nether.
To help improve the efficiency of the bees' work, place flowers near the hive so they can gather pollen and return to their hive as quickly as possible. You can also improve the efficiency of your bees by relocating them to the Nether or the End, as these dimensions do not experience weather or daylight cycles, meaning that bees can work at any time.[verify] If you're worried about bees wandering too far away from their hives, it may be wise to build an enclosure to both protect them and prevent them from straying too far away. This is especially important if you choose to keep the bees in The Nether or in The End, as these dimensions can be particularly dangerous. 

It is worth noting that the pollen particles that fall from bees can cause crops to advance growth stages similar to using bone meal. Thus, it can be beneficial to build your beehives near your crops to allow the bees to help them grow faster, although doing so does not improve the bee's efficiency in making honey.

### Harvesting
Dripping honey.
Main article: Beehive
Pollinated bees fly into beehives and start working for a while. When done, they exit the hive, increasing the honey level by 1. When the honey level has reached 5, the block's appearance changes, indicating that it is full of honey, and produces dripping honey particles if suspended above the ground. If shears are used on a full beehive, it drops three honeycombs. Unlike with shearing pumpkins, these honeycomb items are generated directly in the center of the block, causing them to spray everywhere (this is intended behavior).[1]  If an empty glass bottle is used on a full beehive, the bottle fills with honey, becoming a honey bottle.  However, if this is done by hand without preparation, the bees take offense and attack the player!

### Avoiding bee anger
In Java Edition, bees can be protected from the campfire by placing a carpet over it.
Unfortunately, casually harvesting honey or honeycomb causes any bees inside the hive to emerge and attack the player who does it. If the player fights back with any attack, every bee in range joins the attack.  Any time a bee succeeds in landing an attack, the player gets poisoned, and the bee itself dies about a minute later. Naturally, this is bad when you were hoping to adopt those bees, and worse when most of your own swarm commits suicide!

There are two main ways to avoid this fate: One is to place a lit campfire (or even fire) directly underneath the hive.  A campfire can be within five blocks underneath the hive, if nothing blocks the smoke.  This "smokes" the hive, so that harvesting does not aggravate the bees.  However, a campfire (let alone a fire block) also damages mobs that touch it, and bees are no exception.  In Java Edition, you can put the campfire just below ground level, with a carpet over it.  The carpet does not block the smoke, and the covered campfire can stay there forever, allowing you to harvest the nest or hive. A trapdoor also works just as well.  In Bedrock Edition, carpeting the campfire blocks the smoke. It is best to put the campfire in a hole below the beehive and put a fence around the hole to prevent animals from burning themselves (this works in Java Edition too).

The other is to maintain deniability by using redstone: Hives can be harvested by using a dispenser (with a glass bottle or shears), and then the bees do not attack anyone.  This works because the whenever a block gets activated by redstone, such as a Dispenser or TNT, the game cannot determine who activated said block: it sees only that the targeted block was activated via redstone.  As such, the game is unable to assign a target for the bees to attack.  This mechanic can also extend to other aspects of the game, such as determining who attacks a Villager via exploding TNT or the ability to block TNT with a Shield.  The #Automatic harvesting section below discusses designs for using redstone.

Even if there are no bees in a nest or hive, harvesting them or breaking them can anger bees if they are nearby. One way of making sure a nest or hive is empty before breaking it is to block all six sides of the hive with solid blocks so bees can't enter. Then wait until night so the bees go back into their remaining hives, and the hive can be broken (or harvested) safely. The blocks must be solid and touching the hive. Fence posts, glass panes, and trap doors do not block the surface or contain the bees.

Bees exit a hive or nest through the front. On rare occasions, one may harvest a nest from the front at the exact moment a bee emerges from the hive. If this happens, the bee considers itself struck even if there is smoke under the nest, and nearby bees still attack. To avoid this rare situation, always harvest honey or honeycombs from a side other than the front of the hive.

