## Overview
### Game Progression
This guide deals only with the beginning of the game, but here are a few words on the shape of the game as a whole. "Progression" in Minecraft is simpler and less linear than most other games, mostly a matter of finding various materials and resources, each of which allows new capabilities and options. For example, making a wooden pickaxe lets you mine stone to make a stone pickaxe and a furnace; this in turn lets you mine and smelt iron ore; the iron pickaxe lets you mine diamonds, and then a diamond pickaxe lets you mine any block that can be mined. Similarly, various crops let you breed different animals, each of which provides different resources over and above "better food". Various enemy drops likewise each have their uses (some more useful than others), and combining various resources from mining, farming and breeding, let you enchant your equipment. Collecting and crafting various materials also lets you build with them; even beyond the practical factors of secure bases and farms, building your own structures is a big part of the game experience.

Progression beyond the Overworld is fairly limited: Eventually you can build a nether portal to reach the Nether, where you can get materials for more complex crafting, the resources to brew potions, and the top tier of tools and armor. The Nether materials also let you reach the End dimension, where you must defeat the ender dragon to unlocks the outer End Islands, where you can get an elytra that lets you fly, and shulker boxes for more storage. There are also two optional bosses: the elder guardians in the Overworld oceans, and the wither, which is summoned with Nether materials. 

### First day
Main article: Tutorials/Your first 10 minutes
For the first day, you have just a few basic objectives:

- Look around to see what your environment is, and if necessary go someplace else. (See "Biomes" below for more details on this.)
- Acquire resources and tools: Get wood, make wood tools (at least apickaxe), use that to getcobblestone, make stone tools.
- Getcoal(or makecharcoal) to maketorches, and find or make a shelter for the night.
- Optional goals include:
	- Killing animals for meat
	- Killingsheepin particular forwoolto make abedto skip nighttime or a place to respawn
	- Breakingshort grassto collectwheat seeds, and perhaps tilling the edge of a pond or river to start a wheat farm.
	- Collecting someiron oreif you spot some near the surface. You need to acquire astone pickaxefirst.

As the first day begins, you need to collect logs. First, you should look around for trees, and go toward any you find, and break their trunks by "punching wood" as discussed above. Always collect all the wood on the tree so you make more things to craft weapons and tools. You need to collect at least 5-8 logs for your first round of tools and items you need immediately. You should make more a little later, but a few tools now make collecting more wood go much more quickly. As discussed above, the first thing to make is a crafting table, followed by a few sticks. The first tool you should craft is a wooden pickaxe (3 planks in the top 3 slots, and 2 sticks down from the middle plank). Crafting other wooden tools is not recommended, as you can quickly get cobblestone and make stone tools.

If any stone blocks are exposed close by, you can mine them with your new pickaxe to collect about 20 blocks of cobblestone. This is the amount you need to create every basic tool needed for this tutorial: a stone sword, stone pickaxe, stone axe, shovel, and a furnace. If you are efficiency minded, just mine 3 blocks of stone with your wooden pickaxe, immediately make a stone pickaxe and mine the rest of the stone with it, as it is about twice as fast. While you're doing this, keep an eye out for coal ore, and mine any you find. Depending on the position of the stone blocks, mining them might well make you a mini-cave to spend the night in, otherwise keep an eye out for possible places to lair up.

Food is required to keep you alive and to not take damage. Make a sword and kill animals for them to drop food. It is not recommended to eat the food when raw, so craft a furnace (8 cobblestone blocks with a empty the middle slot) and place down the furnace you crafted. Mine coal ore for fuel and put the food you have into the furnace. Wait for it to cook and when the cooking is done, you can eat it.

Once you have a stone axe, you should try to get more logs as time allows; extra logs are useful in many ways, such as building, crafting, securing your base and much more. If you have difficulty finding coal, you definitely want an extra dozen or more logs to make charcoal! With coal or charcoal, you can make torches (coal or charcoal above a stick on the crafting grid) for the night. 

Optional goals: While you're doing this, break any short grass and tall grass you pass and collect any wheat seeds that drop (but don't waste time on this), and once you've got a sword or an axe, kill whatever food animals you pass, especially sheep (up to 3 of them), collecting whatever they drop. Not all animals are food animals: Only pigs, sheep, cows, chickens, and rabbits drop meat. Other animals are all best left alone for now. Don't spend too much time chasing down animals though: a few pieces of meat are plenty, and for wool, you need 3 pieces of the same color. If you happen to spot some iron ore, wait until you've got your stone pickaxe, and then mine that too.

If you are next to a river or an ocean, you might want to get some fish for food. Cod and salmon are some of the best food sources in the game, and new fish reappear soon after you killed some (or even all) of them, so you don't need to worry about preserving them for future breeding (they can't be bred anyway). Before entering water, you should first make sure it is not too deep, and the bottom of the river/ocean is well illuminated, because not only are you more likely to drown in deeper water, but it is more likely to spawn drowned, a variant of zombie that may be dangerous to fight. While in water, you can still use WASD to move around, but your movements are much slower than on land. press space to move upward in water (also for getting back onto the shore), and ⇧ Shift to descend. pressing ctrl and W together allows you to swim faster, and you can change directions flexibly by moving the camera. Remember to always watch the oxygen bar above your hunger bar, as when all bubbles are gone, you start taking drowning damage. Cod and salmon can be easily killed with a swipe of a sword. After this tiny fishing trip, remember to cook your fish in your furnace to get cooked cod and cooked salmon, which work longer to prevent hunger. 

By the time you've done this, sunset is likely imminent or in the past. If you're really ahead of the game, you might take a moment to hoe some grass blocks or dirt next to a river or pond, and plant seeds to get a head start on wheat. Place a torch near these so they can grow overnight. But at that point, it's time to finish for the day: Head for cover, and either prepare a cave as your first night's lair, or make a mini-house. If you were able to make a bed, you don't strictly need a shelter, it's better to have it someplace safe where you can leave it be, but you can also just find an open space to place it. Either way, use the bed as soon as you can.

