#### Combat
Main article: Combat
Surviving in Minecraft often requires a knowledge of the game's combat mechanics. There are two combat systems that exist in Minecraft – the system in the Java Edition and the system in all other versions. In Java Edition, without a tool in the player's hand, any attack deals 1 health point () of damage. In Bedrock Edition, a bare-handed attack deals 2 health points () of damage. Tools in general do a great deal more damage, and do more damage the higher their tier. In general, swords do make the best weapons, followed closely by axes. Pickaxes do less damage, and shovels do the least. Hitting a creature with a sword uses up 1 point of its durability, while using any other tool uses up 2 points of the tool's durability. When a creature is hit, it turns red for a half second, marking its "invulnerability period". A second attack in this time does no damage.

The combat mechanics for non-Java platforms are simple: While three blocks away or closer to a mob, the player can attack that entity by clicking the attack button while their cursor is over the entity. Clicking speed does not affect the combat, instead, a player's skill in combat is based more on their hit accuracy. The basic tools from above each deal multiple hearts of damage when the player attacks an entity while holding that tool.

In the Java Edition, a slightly different combat system is used. To attack any mobs or players, the player still must have the cursor hovering over the entity and be within three blocks of the entity when they press the attack button. However, after attacking, the weapon enters a brief "cooldown" period, indicated by the position of the weapon in the player's hand, and also by an icon in the hotbar. This happens even if you missed, or if the target was still invulnerable for a previous attack! Different basic tools have different cooldowns between hits. If the player attacks while still in a cooldown period, the attack deals much less damage, making it more important to aim your attacks. In Java Edition, axes do far more damage per hit than swords, but their cooldown period is much longer, giving them lower overall damage than swords over time. They also still wear out twice as fast as a sword.

In addition to attacking, the player can also block attacks with the shield. (Crafting a shield requires first obtaining an iron ingot, so it's unlikely to get one for your first day.) A shield completely negates any damage when it is raised with the  right mouse button‌[Java Edition  only] or sneaking‌[Bedrock Edition  only]. In Java Edition, a shield can be temporarily disabled if attacked with an axe.

### Items and inventory
Main article: Inventory
Picking a loose item up is as simple as walking over or near the item. To drop the item in your hand (see below), use the "throw" key, which defaults to Q. The item gets tossed two or three blocks in the direction you are looking. Pick it back up by walking over to it. In multiplayer, you can use this to give an item to another player — just throw the item toward them and they pick it up. You can also drop items or stacks of items using the Inventory GUI, discussed below.

Pro tip: On standard keyboards, the Q key is right next to the movement keys. This makes it very easy to accidentally throw away the item you're currently using, which may be a valuable tool. Many players prefer to change the "throw/drop" function to another key, such as O or K. All of these controls and more can be viewed by pressing Esc -> Options -> Controls. 

From the start of the game, you can see nine special inventory slots, called your "hotbar", but you also have more slots that are normally hidden. As you pick up items, the first few appear in your hotbar slots, but once those are full, they go into the 27 slots of your main inventory. At any given time, one of your hotbar slots is "selected", and the item in that slot is considered to be "in hand". (You can see your item in hand in front of you.) You can press keys 1 through 9 (or use a mouse-wheel if you have one) to choose which hotbar slot is active, thus you can quickly switch among up to 9 handy tools or other items.

Multiple items of the same type usually "stack", showing a number indicating how many of them there are. Most items stack up to 64; other items (like chicken eggs) stack only to 16. Weapons, tools and armor are more individual, and do not stack at all. When you use, place, or throw items from a stack, you generally use one item at a time, counting down the stack.

To get at the rest of your slots (and the beginnings of crafting), press E to open your personal inventory. This also announces your first achievement‌[Bedrock Edition  only]; you can safely ignore all such announcements. This is your first GUI and shares many features with the other GUIs encountered in the game:

- Your cursor no longer controls your view. Instead, you use it to pick up and drag items among various slots. Left-click picks up or drops an entire stack; right-click picks up half of a stack or drop one item at a time. There are more complex options, see the "Inventory" article linked above for details.
- Opening a GUI doesnotpause the game, but while you are attending to the inventory you can see only a little bit of the world around you. Be careful about fooling with your inventory while monsters are around! InJava Edition, opening any GUI also allows you to switch away fromMinecraftand to another desktop window,withoutpausing the game.

1. Player's armor. 2. Character. 3. Personal crafting area. 4. Offhand slot. 5. Recipe book. 6. Inventory. 7. Hotbar (part of inventory)
Looking to the right, you can see an image of your inventory screen. There is a little image of your character, showing their current appearance. Left of that image are four slots for any armor you are wearing -- these can each contain only an appropriate armor piece, for helmet, chest, legs, or feet. (This guide does not discuss armor.) Just to the right is a slot marked with a shield, which is your "offhand slot". This one can actually contain almost any item, but most common is indeed a shield (which isn't available on your first day). If you are wearing a shield, you can use it with the same "use" key as for other items -- in general, you can "use" any item in your offhand, as long as neither the item in your main hand nor the block you are looking at has a "use" feature.

Below these are the 27 slots of your main inventory. You can drag items around from these slots to your hotbar and back, armor pieces can be moved to and from their armor slots, and items can be dragged to the personal crafting grid. Dragging items completely out of the GUI's rectangle and releasing them there drops the items into the world, much like the Q key (or whatever you rebound that to), but it is easier to drop a whole stack this way.

The hotbar and main inventory add up to 36 slots for general storage, which is the limit for how much a player can carry around and transport on their person. There is no sense of "weight" or encumbrance for items; a player moves at normal speed regardless of how full their inventory is, or what particular items they are carrying. (It is a running joke that a player can bounce around while carrying what "should be" hundreds of tons of stone and/or metal.) If your inventory becomes completely full, you cannot pick up new items, although you may still be able to pick up more of any stackable items that you already have.

