### Biomes
Main article: Biome
The Minecraft world is divided into different areas called "biomes". Different biomes contain different blocks and plants and change how the land is shaped. There is an advancement that includes finding all the biomes; this is better explained on the advancements page. Biomes affect you, especially at the beginning of the game, but you need not worry about specific biomes until you have learned how to play the game. If you are curious, you may want to read more about biomes on the biomes page. That said, there are a few cases you should worry about:

- You start on a small island in theocean: Go to the highest point on the island and look around for other land. If you see a reasonably-sized continent with trees and animals, swim there. If you see no large land and no animals in sight, you have an "ocean spawn". For a player's first game, it is entirely reasonable to exit this world and try again with a differentworld seed.
- You are standing on sand, with no trees or water nearby. You are in adesert. Again, go to high ground and look around for trees and green grass. If you see some, go there before continuing with this guide. If there's no green in sight, this is another situation where you can reasonably toss the world and try again. Deserts are much easier when encountered from outside, but they are missing important things like dirt, wood, and accessible stone, all of which you really do need to start off the game.
- You are in adark forestwith thick trees, a thick leaf canopy, andgiant mushroomsscattered around. This is a particularly unsafe place for a starting character and a beginning player, because the canopy can create areas dark enough for hostile mobs to spawn in daytime. However, if you move quickly, you can probably make it to more open ground in a reasonable amount of time, and start setting up in a more reasonable biome. Don't leave the dark forest behind completely, though — once you have basic armor and weapons, it's a resource-rich area. Grab some of that plentiful wood once you reach the edge! The giant mushrooms also offer a plentiful source of food, so don't forget to grab some of those! There is a rare chance for awoodland mansionto generate in this biome. They are dangerous, but provide you a lot of good resources, so make a note where it is!
- The land around you is greyish-purple, with dusty particles, giant mushrooms, and red "cows": Rejoice, for you have received a miracle: a spawn in amushroom fieldsbiome, where hostile creatures cannot appear (except for underground dungeons). You do need to go elsewhere to find wood, crop seeds, and some other resources, but otherwise, you've gotten into a golden situation here. Once you have even a bit of wood, you can get unlimited food from themooshrooms, and you have a large area in which you barely need to worry about your safety even at night, a great place to set up your long-term base.

#### Villages
If you see houses and other buildings nearby, this is not exactly a biome, but it means that you are near a village, which is a good thing. In fact, a village lets you skip past much of the first and second-day activities (due to ready-made shelter and beds) but it requires a bit of care. It's worth exploring the village and looting any chests you find; if you happen to find any emeralds, you might even be able to buy some useful items from the villagers. Besides providing equipment, food and other resources, a village also lets you collect the seeds for all four of the basic crops up front, from their farms, and you can also take one of their beds with you when you leave. You can even grab a few blocks of wood or stone from their houses, but try not to damage the village too much -- your best bet may be to disassemble one of the smaller houses and move its bed to one of the intact houses. (Don't bother doing this in a desert village, the sandstone is pretty but fragile, and you can't make tools out of it.)

If you see an iron golem trundling around, be careful — If you attack it or the villagers, it becomes hostile to you!

Right-click (use) on the villagers to open the trading interface. Do not left-click (attack) on them as they become upset, raising their prices... and if an iron golem notices, you're in trouble.

As you originally encounter them, villagers can sell useful early-game items like iron tools, armor and weapons, but remember that eventually you can mine for your own iron and such. Don't bother buying stone tools unless you're in a desert, and maybe not even then. You can also harvest wheat and vegetables from village farms, but be sure to replant them afterward, they don't look like much newly planted, but they grow back over time. You can even sell the crops you harvested back to the farmers. You can also harvest any hay bales from the vicinity and craft them back into wheat, and sell the wheat to any farmer you find (or make bread out of it for yourself). 

Any time you are near a village, you can sleep in one of their beds overnight, as soon as night falls. Trying to stay up overnight can expose the village to attacks by monsters, which can easily wipe out the villagers. It's okay if a villager has already claimed the bed — trying to use the bed the first time simply kicks the villager out, and then you can use the bed again for yourself. If you have a village, you should probably travel some distance from it (say, fifty or a hundred or so blocks from the edge) to make your own lair, to avoid having monsters appear overnight due to your presence. If monsters (such as illagers) do appear during the day, your best bet at this point is to ring one of the bells in the village, and hope that the village's iron golem can deal with the invasion. It is difficult to repopulate a village that has been wiped out.

Certainly remember where the village was, because as you accumulate more resources, the trading becomes more exploitable. For the first day, the most obvious tricks are:

- Take any food or other resources from the chests. Some items like obsidian or horse armor may not be immediately useful, so you can leave those for later.
- Collect any hay bales and harvest any crops that are ripe,. Try to replant what you harvest, but make sure you keep seeds for each of the four crops (wheat,carrots,potatoes,beetroot). If there are pumpkins or melons around, collect samples of those.
- The hay bales can be turned into wheat, which, along with any harvested crops can be sold back to the farmers, or crafted intobread. If you have a fair bit of extra wood, and can find a Fletcher, you can turn the wood into sticks (see below) and sell those, getting 1 emerald for 2 logs' worth of wood. With those emeralds and any you find in the chests, you may be able to buy a couple more useful items, most likely leather armor or iron tools.
- If you really need wood or stone, try harvesting a few logs or cobblestone from above head height in the houses, so as to minimize the damage.
- Sleep in a bed overnight, and take it with you when you go.

