### 
#### Sleeping on beds
Main article: Bed
To make it through the first night, the player can do either (or both) of two options: build a shelter, or get hold of a bed. If you have to choose, the bed is likely easier and safer... if you can find those precious three blocks of wool. If you were lucky enough to run into a village, you can sleep in one of their beds, and probably swipe it afterward.

A bed is a special block with an unusual shape: It takes up two blocks of floor space, but is only about half a block tall. When crafting a bed, the three wool must be the same color, which becomes the color of the bed. However, the planks need not match. Wool is obtained from sheep}}; for now you need to kill them for it, but later in the game you can shear sheep to get a steady supply of wool without harming them. Sometimes you may find wool lying on the ground, especially in a forest; this wool comes from sheep that were killed by wolves or by other players. If there are no sheep to be found at all, you can eventually collect string from killed spiders, and craft wool from the string.


With a bed, the night is easy to survive. All you need to do to do is place the bed somewhere suitable (see below, but almost any open ground works) and use it (sleep in it) whenever night falls. If you try using it as sundown approaches but are told "you can only sleep at night or during a thunderstorm...", just wait a few seconds and try again, it works once sundown has properly begun. You also cannot use a bed when hostile monsters are within 10 blocks, or you get the message "you can't sleep now, there are monsters nearby". On successfully using a bed, you change to lying position on the bed without the ability to move – not even looking around. It takes a few seconds after getting into bed before the game skips the night, giving you a chance to change your mind.

A bed allows you to do three important things:

- It lets you skip past the night (or a thunderstorm, which can also be a fairly dangerous situation for a new player). No time passes in the world: crops do not grow, furnaces do not smelt, etc., but the game time advances to dawn, upon which monsters stop spawning on the surface and any skeletons or zombies caught in the sudden sunlight burst into flame.
	- If you are in amultiplayergame, all other players must also use a bed before night is skipped, though various gamemodscan alter that rule.
- Using a bed sets yourspawn point, that is the location yourespawnin if you die. Without a set spawn point, after dying you reappearsomewhere, without your possessions, within 20 blocks of the world spawn point (usually outdoors), and if it was night time, it's still night when you respawn. This is not a pleasant situation! In current versions (1.17 or newer) of Java Edition, using the bed during daytime sets your spawn point even if you can't sleep yet.
- If you have not slept (or died) within the last three days or so,phantomscan spawn at night and even during thunderstorms. If you go outside, these swoop down from the sky to attack. Sleeping in a bed prevents this not-so-minor inconvenience. Phantoms burn like other undead monsters after the sun rises. Luckily, this is only your first day.

A few warnings about using beds for a spawn point:

- To actually respawn at the new spawn point, the bed needs to stay put! If you pick up the bed to take with you, then if you die the bed is counted as "missing", and it's back to somewhere near the world spawn.
- You also need to have some open space next to the bed, on the same level or the level below -- someplace where you could stand when you respawn. This has to be a solid, opaque block to stand on;glass,slabs,fences, or other non-solid blocks donotcount. If there is no such space when you die, the bed is considered "obstructed", and again, it's back to the world spawn. However, your spawn point still defaults to the bed, if you clear the area out later.
- In multi-player, if another player has since used the same bed, your spawn point is also lost.

These limitations are why the best option is to have a secure shelter of your own, with a bed permanently installed inside it. That way, after death you come back safe at home. If it's still night or storming, you can go back to bed and sleep through to daylight, before you go back in search of your fallen possessions.

#### Building your shelter
Main article: Tutorials/Shelters
The best way to avoid the darkness and accompanying mobs of night time is to craft and use a bed, but this isn't an option available to all players by the end of their first day. Building a shelter is an important skill for players to learn, and especially so if you cannot get a bed. The point of a quick shelter is to keep all monsters far enough from you that they cannot harm you. Monsters do not even move toward a player who is in a correctly built shelter. A shelter is a good place to continue to mine, craft, and smelt items while waiting for daybreak. If a village happens to be nearby, that is an ideal place to seek shelter, but in modern versions of the game, a village also has beds, so you can just avoid any trouble by sleeping through the night. 

To protect a player, a shelter should be made out of blocks that cannot be walked or seen through by monsters. Holes in the walls or ceiling can be a safety hazard as baby zombies can fit through a one-block gap, skeletons can shoot through open gaps created by slabs or stairs, and spiders can climb over most walls. Creepers can blow up a house made of dirt or wood (stone is more durable), but only if they can see you. All that said, holes above head height (2 blocks or more above the ground outside) are out of reach for most monsters, and while spiders can climb, they cannot fit through a one-block wide gap. Fences (see below) can be used for windows; while monsters can see (or shoot) over a fence on the ground, if the fences are joined on all sides to blocks, the monsters can't see, move or shoot through them (and you cannot shoot through them either). 

The walls and ceiling of a shelter can be made entirely out of material the player has gathered, but it is usually faster to dig your shelter out of a hill, or to close off the openings of a nearby cave. When doing this, you need to avoid the few blocks affected by gravity, which for now are just sand and gravel. A player may already have a hole dug out from gathering cobblestone earlier in the day, which can be quickly fitted out as as a shelter. Sometimes, there may be a naturally generated structure nearby that would serve as a shelter. If you're stuck on an open plain, you may yet need to build a small hut out of dirt, planks, and/or stone. 

In an emergency, you might not have time to make an adequate shelter, if night falls and monsters show up before you can arrange for something. There are still a few options left:

- If a hill is nearby, you can dig a short tunnel into the hill and block off the entrance. This gives you enough time to place a crafting table and make a few fences, which you can use to replace the blocks at the entrance (one at a time so nothing gets in), so that you can see when dawn comes. Lacking fences, you can leave a one-block hole above head height at the entrance.
- While digging straight down is usually unsafe, an emergency may warrant digging straight down three blocks from the surface and quickly blocking off the top. If you have already made some fences or trapdoors, these are ideal for the top, as, again, they let you see when dawn comes.
- You can ride aboatout into an ocean to avoid the monsters on land, but there may also be monsters under the water. At the least, avoid any areas lit from underneath the water, and in a boat you can easily move away from any monsters that appear. Also, hunger does not deplete in aboat.
- If desperate enough you can change the difficulty to "peaceful mode" temporarily to remove all monsters, and change it back in the morning.

Having created a shelter, you need to light it up to avoid being in almost complete darkness. Even a single torch is sufficient for a small hidey-hole, and if you are using a furnace, it also provides a bit of light while you smelt. That said, it's better to have light before building a shelter, so you can set up light sources when you can still see.

To get in and out of a shelter, the player needs some type of entrance/exit. If necessary, the shelter's exit can simply be some dirt or other easily broken blocks. A much better way to set up a shelter's entrance is by crafting and placing a door. A door is relatively cheap and can be placed on any solid, opaque block. The door requires a vertical space of two blocks. Placing the door from the outside causes it to be flush with the outside wall. Doors can be quickly opened and closed and while closed some of them allow the player to see outside, without monsters being able to see or attack the player inside. In Easy and Normal difficulty, zombies bang on doors, but cannot actually break them down. If you are playing on Hard difficulty (again, a beginning player shouldn't be!), a zombie can break down a wooden door, but even then, you can easily block off the door from the inside with one or two blocks.

A good alternative to a door is a fence gate. Even in Hard difficulty, monsters do not know how to open a fence gate and do not break them like doors.

