### Light
Main article: Light
Monsters can't spawn within 24 blocks of you, but huddling in the dark is no fun – and when you do leave your home, you don't want to come back to find a monster has spawned or moved in. The usual way to fend of monster spawning is by light -- daylight or artificial. So, before night falls, you need to light up your space, and at this point, the only light sources you have are torches.

The power of torches has been sharply increased in recent versions of the game; as of version 1.18, they completely prevent monsters from spawning (naturally) anywhere within reach of their light. This light stretches for 13 spaces of taxicab distance; each square east, west, north, south, up, and down, counts independently. This if you have a torch at head height at one corner of a large room, the safe area stretches 6 spaces diagonally on the floor (one space downward from the torch). On a hill, the light can stretch 4 blocks diagonally and up- or down-hill. Most solid blocks also block light – light can often travel around blocks, but any detour counts against its range.

### Food and hunger
Main articles: Food, Hunger and Tutorials/Hunger management
Once you have tools and shelter, your next priority is food.  Hunger takes a while to hit, so it shouldn't be a problem on your first day, but you should try to pick up some food for when it does, just so you don't get into an emergency situation. Just killing a few animals and cooking their meat can tide you over for long enough to make more permanent arrangements. The occasional apple or sweet berries can help a bit, but mind those damage-dealing bushes! You can go up and read the food section for more information. Don't starve to death!

Making a crude wheat farm early on (break short grass for seeds, hoe grass blocks next to existing water, plant seeds in your new farmland) is listed as an optional objective, but if you can pull it off your first day, it gives you a definite head start on the game. Having wheat gives you more options: Harvested wheat can be used to make bread, or to capture and breed sheep and cows, and extra seeds can be used to capture and breed chickens.

Making food really quick is possible if you make a food farm, but this is more of the more advanced things in Minecraft as it is no ordinary farm. You should instead make a normal crop area with your hoe instead of food farms for beginners, as food farms requires redstone, water, and many other things that are not for beginners.

The primary drain on hunger is from healing damage, and for quite some time, eating is your only way to heal damage! Fighting (even before healing damage), sprinting, and jumping are also energy-intensive. (Be careful about going uphill with auto-jump!) You have a little grace period (see "saturation") when starting the game and after eating, but when that's exhausted, your food bar starts rippling. At this point, healing damage, or getting too athletic, starts to drain your hunger bar.

If you get too hungry, you start suffering: Below 90% you can't heal damage, below 30% you can't sprint, and if the hunger bar goes empty, you'll lose health to starvation. You can't actually starve to death unless you're in Hard difficulty, but you are still quite vulnerable. You do not lose hunger at all in Peaceful mode. See the Second Day guide for slightly more detail, or the Hunger page for the whole story.

Note that if you are staying at full health, and not fighting, sprinting and/or jumping a lot, swimming long distances or mining many blocks, then you use almost no food. Walking at normal speed does not use up food (neither does sneaking). Neither does crafting, and even mining and placing blocks use only a tiny amount per block. Thus, if your character has a secure place to stay, even if you've started to get hungry, you can just stay put to conserve food while waiting out the night, a storm, or crop/animal growth.

There are also a few items you technically can eat, but shouldn't. Raw chicken (the only one of these you might see the first day) has a 30% chance of giving food poisoning that can leave you even hungrier, and if you eat rotten flesh, that has an 80% of giving you food poisoning. Eating a spider eye outright poisons you, and eating a pufferfish poisons you badly. 

If you can manage to kill a couple (or more) spiders, you may get a couple of pieces of string, which lets you craft a fishing rod. This is a perpetual source of food if you have water nearby. Cod and salmon are both good food items (especially when cooked), replenishing both the hunger and saturation levels. Now, if you are next to a body of water, you can just jump into the water and kill some of the fish, but proper fishing can also catch a few useful items along with the fish. You do not need bait of any kind, but the fishing rod eventually wears out.

## Play-by-play
### Getting started
A player begins the game standing in a landscape somewhere. This is the general area in which a player reappears (respawns) upon death. If you have slept in a bed (and the bed's still there) you respawn next to that. This is the start of a new Minecraft world. This tutorial is intended to teach you the skills needed to survive in this world and eventually be able to do just about anything you desire. You can do the different sections below in any order you desire, but many sections require you to first complete other tasks first. The tasks listed on this page (except those noted as optional) should all be completed before moving on to the second day tutorial, even if it takes you multiple days to complete all of the tutorials. No matter what, your goal for the first day should be creating a bed or shelter so you can survive the night. The other tasks are also important and can all be completed along with the main objectives while leaving you with extra time.

See the first section of this guide for information about controls and getting around in the world. You need to master those skills in order to complete the following tasks. Again, the game starts at noon, and you have 10 minutes of game time before nightfall. Your overarching goal here is to acquire basic equipment and a simple shelter in that time. You do have some time to practice your basic skills and learn about your inventory, but don't take too much time at that. If night falls and you still don't have any shelter or basic equipment, it is fair (for your first game) to switch the game to Peaceful mode for the night. 

While following the steps below, break any tall grass you see and collect any seeds that drop. They become useful later. In fact, collect any loose items you come across; almost everything can be potentially useful. Also keep an eye out for orange pumpkin blocks and (if you happen to be in a jungle) green melon blocks. If you find any, break some of them and take the results with you for later farming. Also watch out for sweet berry bushes. Pressing the use control on them can provide berries for a bit of food, but actually stepping into them hurts!

