##### Useful crafts
There are a few things the player can craft that are particularly useful when making a shelter. In all cases, see their respective pages for more details. For all but the chest, the planks you use must all be of the same type (the ladder uses no planks).

- Doorsmake a 2-high entrance that can be quickly opened or closed. Depending what wood they're made of, you may be able to see through them a little, but regardless they let light through, which can tell you when dawn comes even if they have no transparent parts.
- Trapdoorsare the vertical version of doors, providing a one-block entrance in a floor or ceiling. (Ladders are helpful here, see below.) They likewise let light pass through, but you may or may not be able to actually see through them.
- Fencesare a versatile barrier; placed in a line on the ground, they block most monsters (and animals). While they look like they're only one block high, they are in fact 1½ blocks high, which is too high to jump over. (But watch out for blocks within the couple of blocks behind them, which can let monsters climb up onthoseto jump onto the fence.) One drawback is that spiderscanclimb such fences, like other blocks. If placed in a wall (that is, surrounded by blocks on all sides including the top), fences can provide a cheap window, since you can see through them (but monsters can't). Make sure the fence is visibly joined to all blocks on each side; they do not join to doors, trapdoors or glass. You can also make similarwallsout of cobblestone or other kinds of stone, but these don't provide visibility.
- Fence gatesare a cross between doors and fences. They are 11⁄2blocks high like fences, but can be opened and closed.
- Laddersare flat blocks that you can place against a wall to let you climb them. If you leave the bottom block (against the ground) un-laddered, you need to jump to get onto the ladder, but monsters can't climb after you. As usual, spiders can still climb the wall.
- Achestisn't reallynecessaryat this stage, but it's a convenient way to stash items you don't want to carry around. If you get killed, anything in the chest remains there, waiting for you rather than scattered around your death site. It needs to be placed as a block, then "use" the block to open its GUI and get at the contents. If you break a chest (use your hand or an axe), everything that was inside spills out as loose items, along with the chest item itself. Two chests next to each other can combine into a "large chest", see the Chest page for full details.

| Name             | Ingredients                  | Crafting recipe | Description                                                               |
|------------------|------------------------------|-----------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Bucket           | Iron Ingots                  |                 | Used to pick upwater,lavaorpowdered snow. Also used to milk cows formilk. |
| Shield           | Iron Ingots<br/>and AnyPlank |                 | Used to block most attacks from mobs and players.                         |
| WoodenDoor       | MatchingPlanks               | 33333333333     |                                                                           |
| WoodenFence      | MatchingPlanks+<br/>Stick    | 33333333333     |                                                                           |
| WoodenFence gate | Stick+<br/>MatchingPlanks    |                 |                                                                           |
| WoodenTrapdoor   | MatchingPlanks               | 22222222222     |                                                                           |
| Ladders          | Stick                        | 3               |                                                                           |
| Chest            | AnyPlanks                    |                 |                                                                           |

Read more: Guide to shelters

## Dawn
Wait for full light (or the sounds of burning undead), wield your sword, and carefully leave your shelter. Even in sunny weather, watch out for any remaining monsters — this may well be your first fight. If you see spiders, don't panic, they likely have become neutral in the sun, and you can try to kill them for their strings. If you see a creeper, your best option at this point is to run at least 16 blocks away from it and wait for it to go away (or explode, if it got too close before you got away). If you see any skeletons or zombies hiding under trees or in water, stay away from them — skeletons can still shoot at you if you are too close (16 blocks or so), and either skeletons or zombies may come out from shade to attack you even as they burn. If a burning zombie attacks you and the difficulty is normal or hard, they have a chance to set you on fire! If this happens, flee and jump into any nearby (monster-free) water. Once you're out and clear of monsters, look around for and collect bones, arrows, or rotten flesh that may have been dropped by dead skeletons and zombies.

If it is not sunny, you may have worse problems: You may need to kill zombies or even skeletons (or just retreat back in your shelter until the sun comes out). Zombies can be easy to kill by themselves, but in a pack, they can overrun you — and if attacked, they can call any other zombies in the area to join the fight. At night or during a storm, they can actually summon new zombies!

A skeleton is pretty accurate with its bow. It can be difficult to dodge the arrows. Also, you become an easier target the closer you get. If you get too close, it can kill you in only a couple of shots, because you have no armor. It's best to have a bow (or at least a shield) of your own before facing skeletons. If you don't have a bow or shield and they see you, try to run up to them and get in a few hits with your sword before you get shot too many times (at a distance, you can dodge the arrows). A skeleton's aim improves at higher difficulty.

Assuming you made it out of the shelter, congratulations! You've survived your first night in Minecraft! Within the next day or two, you should have acquired some iron armor and better weapons, which remove much of the terror from nighttime. You can also make a more secure shelter (including a safe place for your bed), and start fencing off and lighting territory for farming. You may have even acquired diamonds!

