### Night time
For most players, the first night is time to set up your crafting table and furnace, cook your meat and perhaps some logs for charcoal, and maybe craft a few things for the next day. If you managed to pick up some iron ore, smelt that too, and consult the "second day" tutorial for what to make with it. If you've settled into a cave, you might want to mine overnight to look for coal or iron ore, but don't go too deep because you want to get an early start for the next day. If you managed to get wool for a bed, you also have the option of just skipping the night; if you managed to make yourself too hungry or hurt, or didn't get much in the way of other resources, that might be a good idea. If you're neither in a or near a cave, you can build a small "house" with a crafting table, furnace and torch if you have one. Close this house up like a lockdown so no mobs can get in.

At night time, the primary danger is hostile mobs (monsters) that spawn only in the dark. These include zombies, skeletons, spiders, creepers, and more. All of these are good reasons to stay put in a well-lit shelter. But if you are really seeking adventure, you could always arm yourself with a sword or an axe and fight some monsters. While you might be able to get some materials for further crafting, it is dangerous, and if you die, all of your items and experience levels drop where you died, and you respawn at your bed (or at your world spawn if you don't have one). So a good idea before adventuring out is to sleep on the bed and leave it, or right click on the bed during the day. When you see "Respawn point set" in the chat message, you can be sure that you respawn in your base next to the bed after dying, instead of in the wild where you first spawned next to a bunch of monsters. However, most of the monsters you can fight at this point either burn (zombies and skeletons) or become less dangerous (spiders) when morning comes, and it is easier to fight them later when you have better equipment. If you must fight monsters this early, be especially wary of skeletons; in the open their arrows can easily get your  health quite low or even kill you at a distance, and if they're in the water or on higher ground, it's unlikely you can reach them before being killed at this stage. If you happen to see any of the more powerful monsters, keep well away from them: At this point, an enderman, a witch, or a creeper can kill you easily.

If you are repeatedly being killed (too ambitious, a monster got into your shelter, or you didn't manage to make a shelter), you can always dig a three-block deep hole, cover it up and hide there. However, consider that because this is the first day, you don't actually lose much when you die (except for what has already been gathered that day), so if you do end up being killed you can just tough it out until dawn and start again. Keep on practicing killing mobs until you get the hang of it. If you're completely desperate, you can consider switching to "peaceful difficulty", which causes all the monsters to disappear until you switch back.

### Shelter
Main article: Tutorials/Shelters
Shelter is one of the most important features in the game, as this is useful for you to build shelter. As noted above, you should really want to find or make some kind of shelter before your first night, to avoid being killed. The "Shelters" article linked above gives a lot of suggestions for emergency shelters and more advanced ideas, but it takes some thinking ahead to manage a decent shelter for the first night. As you move around collecting logs and so on, look at the landscape for potential homes. Easiest (if you can find it) is a small cave with a single entrance that you can wall or fence off. If it's not quite ideal, consider if you can fix it quickly – say, fencing off a back door to deeper caves. If you don't have a cave, you may be able to make one, by digging into a mountainside or even roofing over a small valley. If instead, you have wide, flat space, then go ahead and build a small house. In all cases:

- Don't be too ambitious the first night, because you want to be safe before dark, and you also want to light up the space you claim (see "Light" below). You can always expand and decorate your home later, or even rearrange the landscape around it.
- When picking your location, it's good to have a view of the landscape so you can see if any monsters are waiting for you in the morning. You might need to leave your shelter at a sprint to escape a pesky creeper. Similarly, don't set up next to a pond where skeletons might take refuge in the morning.
- Learn about the awesome powers of wood!Fencescan be used not only in the obvious way but as windows or transparent walls, withfence gatesto get in and out (and no mobs can operate fence gates).Doorsprovide a full-height exit for solid walls, but not fences! A few properly-placedladderscan make it a lot easier to get up to your roof or up a hill. Achestis also useful – stash anything you're not going to use soon, so you don't have to worry about it if you happen to get killed. You save some of your precious 36 inventory slots by making planks and sticks only as you need them. Even if you don't have a chance to do anything fancy before nightfall, you can spend part of the night exploring therecipe bookfor yourcrafting tableandfurnace.
- If you can manage to make a bed early on, place that in your shelter and use it the first night you have it. Getting killed is much less painful after that because sleeping in a bed sets the spawn point next to it, so you reappear inside your home rather than somewhere out in the wild. After the first night, you may well want to spend the nights crafting and mining.Phantomsare not an immediate concern, but you really do want that bed by at least your third night, or simply don't venture out at night until you have a bed.
- Living like a nomad is a possible way to survive, although you need to break your crafting table, furnace, and bed if you have one, each and every time you leave in a sprint. This is one of the best way to get out of the way of a hostile mob. Just beware tall jumps or else you die of fall damage... and you will lose all your stuff if you're too far from spawn!

