#### I - M
- Invisible :Make everything in your city made of glass blocks, glass panes, barriers, and/or ice, with no doors for your buildings and useLight Blocksto ensure brightness, if in creative. However, leave the ground grass, snow, or whatever block it already is.Alternatively build the entire city out of blocks that disappear if a player is too far away from it. Examples arechests,shulker boxes,item frames, andbanners. It may be expensive, but it's worth the surprise factor when an entire city suddenly pops into existence. A third option could be to Useredstoneto make the city pop up out of the ground. Bonus if it retracts back into the ground! You can stop interiors from collapsing by placingcarpetsinside. The redstone may be complex, and the city may look messy, but it would provide for an amazing surprise to anyone trying to attack you.

- Industrial: Build a city entirely around producing things from raw materials. For this theme, you may want to limit the population to mainly workers. You could have the performance of the workers tracked through a server rule. The buildings may be made of grimy metal and stone and there could be a limited number of buildings that are not for work. Try and create a grimy, dirty, polluted feeling around the city as a whole. Large logistics networks could be set up, like minecart trains carrying ore from mines to the smelters, carrying food from farms to processing plants, etc. You can put security features in place to prevent industrial espionage or stealing of the goods produced in your city. This kind of city might be quite competitive, trying to outsell or accumulate more wealth than other places.

- Impoverished:This is an interesting challenge, as instead of building a city filled with the rich, this land can be filled with poor people. Instead of large buildings and roads full of expensive materials, the city might be filled with smaller huts, slums and shanty towns squeezed into each other and made with simple resources. It can be a refreshing build as it moves away from the normal order most cities have.

- Island:Find an ocean in the middle of nowhere, or use the water world inSuperflatand reduce the amount of water. Then start building an island, or use a natural one and make the buildings look like they are in a real island city. Don't forget to build a port that connects the island with the outside world.  If you want to add a tropical island, include miles of beaches and beautiful scenery, try building palm trees and make numerous tourist hotels.

- Magical :Placebrewing stands,cauldrons, andenchantment tablesin abundance around the city. Magic cities can sell things like items related toBrewingandEnchantingandbottles o' enchanting. Usingender chestsinstead of regularchestsadds to the effect. Usewitches,evokersandillusionersfor inhabitants for fun, but they are likely kill you in Survival. Build multipleNether portalsand possibly expand the city into other dimensions.

- Maze:Make your city a maze: hard to navigate, easy to get lost in. Make your city hall/capitol in the middle of your maze city. Having the city streets to be narrow and twisted alleys instead of broad and straight boulevards helps, and expanding the city underground can even add a third dimension to the maze.

- Militaristic:Make a huge city surrounded by a wall made out of a highly resistant block (bedrock,obsidian, etc.). Try and make the city as scary-looking as possible, with armor and weapon factories, lots of smog, and some lava. Also add TNT cannons facing outward beyond the wall, dispensers filled with poison or harming tipped arrows facing out, and armed guards patrolling everywhere. You could also add Iron Golems for some added protection. If you're playing on a server, constantly attack and overtake other cities, villages, or fortresses. Loot them, and then leave them ruined.

- Mob town:Creating a town for non-human creatures can add extra creativity for a build. The player would need to figure out how mobs would live in a city environment, this is likely to require different spaces such as underground tunnels, being built high in the sky or space, or deep underwater or even in another dimension, so it might be easiest to make the entire city devoted to just one or a certain category of mobs. A city inhabited by hostile mobs is dangerous, so it might be a good idea to take precautions to protect visitors.  The citizens could be mobs or something that doesn't exist within the game.

- Modern:Just build your city like a city you would see in real life today. Make skyscrapers, train stations, apartments, office buildings, cars, and more!

- Movie town:Make a city/town/village based on a place in your favorite movie or a movie that you liked. It can also be a place from a video game, TV show, or book. You could use items, mobs or status effects to truly replicate these environments.

- Multi-biome city:When you make your city have sections for eachbiome. Sections could be snowy,desert,forest,swamp,jungle,savanna, or thebadlands. Have buildings built out of the native materials in each biome, e.g. build houses out of stainedterracotta.

- Mushroom city:Build your city on the top ofhuge mushroomsconnected with bridges and build some of the houses inside red huge mushrooms. This works in most biomes, but the best place for this is themushroom islandbiome.

- Mythical location:The player could recreate some location from mythology, a book or movie series, a fairy tale, or a video game. The city may need to be set in a specific biome or area such as underwater. The details from the source could be carefully added into the city to let other players feel as if they have really stepped into the recreated world. Many details may need to be imagined up by the player since most fictional sources cannot capture the full extent of details in the worlds they create.

