### Capital
A city really can appear to have more pride just by adding a capital area. Adding larger, flashier buildings to stick out in the city skyline gives the city a sense of power. The area can be decorated with statues and monuments. Such areas are usually more expensive to live in, so rarer materials fit into the block palette well. You can build a large building for the government(You may not need it).

## Suggestions
Here are some ideas to help the player get started on their city. You can mix and match multiple types.

### City themes
#### A - D
- Historic setting:Using a style based off of historical places such as ancient Greece, ancient Egypt, ancient Rome, native American villages, English colonies, Wild West settlements, medieval cities, or prehistoric-style can allow for some fun block choices and zoning. Game block choices also match up easier with older time periods, so using such a style may save the player the difficulty of creating modern objects in-game. Creating a metropolis based off of ancient or historical civilizations or settings can help the player understand old challenges and history. For Example...
	- Pirate port:Think back to the time of pirates and sea shanties, and build off of that. Be sure to add ships off in the distance, lighthouses, docks, and a tavern or two. Add someparrotsanddolphinsto make the port more lively. You can also fit the ships withTNT cannons. Using pillagers as the residences can be good since they "pillage" other treasures and loot. Any other illagers can work.
	- Wild west:This is best to build in the badlands or desert biomes. Have something like a cowboy town, with a sheriff. You could add dead bushes as tumbleweeds and simulate pistols with crossbows withQuick ChargeandPiercing. Enforce the laws with cowboys on horseback. Make a huge herd of cows for the town's food supply.
- Biome dependent:A city's features could be directly based off of its land. Buildings and roads would then remind the player of where they are no matter the biome or land features.
- Block limitations:To force more creative use of specific blocks (especially important since using fewer blocks improves the quality appearance of a build), the player could force themselves to only use specific blocks or to not use blocks that usually show up in their builds. Sometimes, using specific blocks could act as a way of theming or adding a story to the city. Possible limitations might limit the material, color, or rarities of blocks used. Another variant is to only use blocks available in a certain version, for example only building with blocks available inClassic.
- Cloudy:Build your city in the sky or even at cloud level using light tones and soft looking blocks such assnowandwoolas well as transparent blocks such asglass. By utilizing dripping water or particle effects, weather such as rain, snow, lightning or even a rainbow could be seen as coming from the city.
- Colorful:Make the entire city with one color or color scheme possibly also utilizing particles or mobs of certain colors to contribute to the theme. You can also make a bunch of cities of different colors, or make parts of the city of some color and other parts of another similar to a rainbow.
- Cultural:Base your domain around traditional architecture employed across the world. Every country or group has its own style of architecture, with East Asian and European architecture being probably the most well-known styles. For example in traditional Japanese architecture, wood is the most common material, while roofs are often tiled or thatched, and buildings are elevated slightly off the ground. In traditional Chinese architecture, wood is also a common material, and buildings are typically bilaterally symmetric and feature enclosed open spaces.
- Cultural obsession:The citizens of a city could have a common obsession. Whether it be a sport, craft, or trend, the city could reflect that through its decorations. This gives the player opportunities to create many different decorations. It also adds a personality to the city, since it can be somewhat seen what is important to the citizens of the metropolis.
- Disorder:If the player makes certain areas disordered while creating them, they can add a special story to parts of the city and make something unusual. The player could also make a point of making a certain feature to always appear disordered such as city walls.
- Domed:Build your city completely out of domes. The domes can be floating, on the ground or underwater, and can be made out of glass or any other material. You can connect the domes with bridges or tunnels, or make each house a small dome.

#### E - H
- Ecumenopolis:Turn the whole world into aecumenopolis(read: an extremely big city), stretching from bedrock level to the world height limit. At the top, there could be high-rise penthouses with panoramic windows, while at the bottom, there are slums and gang headquarters. If you have limited time or resources, you can skip the underground part and just make your city a colossal skyscraper. Regardless of how you do it, this project is time-consuming in Survival mode, and even in Creative mode it takes quite a while.

- Electric city:Use nothing butredstone! Build out of redstone blocks and use iron doors. Also use lots of complicated redstonemechanisms, like doorbells, elevators, and flashing indicator lights. Useflying machinesandminecartsubways for player transportation and anitem transportation systemfor post services. Try using redstone for defense too, like hooking up dispenser machine guns and "spike traps" made by arrows shooting out of the ground.Iron golemsfit well in this city, due to their robot-like appearance.

- End fortress:Build a massive version ofend citiesin the End using mostly the materials found there, such asend stone bricks,obsidianandpurpur. Build rooms and entrances at least three blocks high to allow endermen to enter and build three block long "beds" from wool blocks. Useshulker boxesandender chestsfor storage. Addend crystalsfor mysterious-looking decorations, but be careful not to blow them up. Inhabitants should either have black and purple clothes or just beendermen. Add achorus plantfarm, a harbor forend shipsand high towers for flying withelytra. Useend rodsfor lighting. Outlaw water, and if your rules ever require executions, do it by knocking people into theVoid.

- Empire:Instead of building just one city, build a lot of cities. Make one city to be larger than others, and make it the capital of the empire. Connect the cities with roads or a minecart network. Add smaller villages and farms outside the larger cities. If you want a more militant country, build huge walls around the borders, build many large military bases and add battle damage or wipe entire cities off the map withTNTto make it look like they were conquered.

- Flaming cityMake a town and set it on fire without destroying it.Netherrackandmagma blocksare good for this purpose. Use lava in places where water would normally be found.Stridersare one possibility for transportation, but make sure they won't be exposed to rain. Utilise fire-resistant mobs as inhabitants.You could also allow players withFire Protectionarmor or potions ofFire Resistanceto take up residence. You can also usemycelium,gray concrete powderandbasaltwork well as burntGrass, ash and burntlogs). You can also outlaw water, and if you need to execute somebody, do it by burning them alive. Make sure not to build with any flammable blocks, for obvious reasons.

- Floating:Make a city on the water, preferably on the middle of anoceanor lake, as there is most space for this city type. The houses could be boats or rafts, and the main building could be a big flagship. The city can be also built on a large platform on the top layer ofwater, so it looks like it is floating. For transportation, you could build connectednether portalsin the city, and the mainland.BoatsandFrost Walkerbootsare also a good form of transportation in this city type. The city might also be built inside a single, giant ship. If you choose to make only one giant ship, you might fill it withanimalsof all kinds, to make it resemble Noah's Ark.

- Frozen:Make a settlement out of snow and various forms of ice. Using normaliceisn't recommended, as it melts in bright light. buildings could include igloos or much larger structures such as a icy castle, and be inhabited bysnow golems, This is a fairly easy to gather resources for due to the ease of farming snow and ice., If you are using Creative mode, the "Snowy Kingdom" Superflat preset with a few extra layers of stone is ideal.

- Generated structure-based:Find a generated structure, like avillage,strongholdorwoodland mansion, and expand it into a city. Sometimes, the generated structure might need some modifications before being inhabitable, as some generated structures don't have light sources, might have monster spawners or traps, and might be even partially ruined.

- Giant:Make a gigantic city! Build giant buildings, preferably skyscrapers, and havesugar cane,cactus, and tree farms. To cap it off, have the whole population beendermen, and, if you have cheats enabled,giants. (Be sure to have high entryways so your residents can get in and out.)

- Heavenly:Make the city seem divine using a bright white color scheme. Give each citizen anelytrato make everyone look like angels and maybe build the city in the sky. You also might make a Nether city with a few adjustments to make it look like Hell, and build a guarded portal as a connection between the cities.

- Holiday focus:The town could be built based on a specific holiday or season such as Christmas or Autumn. The entire city could have subtle and major ways of reminding the other players about that specific focus through the details, structures and regions of the city.

