#### N - R
- Nether city:Build your city in the Nether. Use materials found in Nether, such asnether bricks,red nether bricksandwarpedandcrimson planks. You can also build the city around anether fortressorbastion remnant, using the structures as the basis of your city. You can havepiglinsliving in this city. Farmhoglinsfor food and usestridersfor mounts. Use lava, glowstone and other materials naturally found in Nether for illumination.

- Other worldly:A metropolis could be made to exist as if in a different world or dimension. As such, the city should have elements depending on the special rules of that dimension. For example, the world could have weird gravity, special technology, exist on clouds or be entirely made out of candy. The way a city functions within a different world would have to be fully considered while creating the metropolis and add many opportunities for creativity.

- Peaceful place:Make a city with passive mobs. Put pretty things like flowers, and make the whole population passive mobs. You can decide whether other players can live there and if using animals is legal e.g shearing, taming. One thing that is illegal, however, is killing anything in the town. Make sure to keep out monsters that could harm the inhabitants and separate animals which could harm each other or alternatively play on peaceful mode.

- Ruins:The city could have sections that feel old and forgotten. Rougher textured blocks, soil, and plants can be added to create overgrown or damaged feels to city areas. The player could also utilise darkness. Larger ruins could have holes, missing windows and doors, entrances blocked by debris and piles of blocks. While ruins usually are abandoned, they don't necessarily have to be. If the city was destroyed, survivors might be still be in the ruins among the dead andundeadmobs. One method of building this city is to destroy most of a pre-built city  although it might not look natural as manual detailing contributes to a ruined feel. You could make it a sort of explorable structure with chests, treasure and secret rooms. Features of the city could hint at why the area is in ruin such as disease, population shift, disaster or just poor management.

#### S - U
- Shrunk:The inhabitants of the city may appear normal-sized to the player, but they would exist in this scenario as tiny people in a giant world. Part of creating such a city would be making the area around the city to show how small the inhabitants of the city are. Plant large jungle or spruce trees around the city, and spawngiantsand hugeslimeswith using commands. You can also build large statues depicting other mobs.

- Sky:Make a normal city using one of the ideas above (or below) but add something to make it float (an anti-gravity engine, several jet engines, etc.) in the air.

- Sovietesque:Center your city around a grand square for the government, and construct wide roads and tall concrete buildings for the city's inhabitants. Always include statues or pixel art of the leader. Your city should also have an extensive metro system, as well as parks, athletic centers, public bathhouses, and schools, all using one or two materials. The outskirts of the city should consist of large wheat fields and farms.

- Space:Consider building your city high in the sky and permanently setting the time to night to create a space-like atmosphere or alternatively surround your city with dark blocks. You could also build the city in the [[End] due to the dark void and starry skyscape, But theEndermenthat spawn there wll likely damage your builds, unless you use commands to prevent mob griefing or play on peaceful mode. You can addNether portalsas "wormholes" to your city although these won't work inThe End. Make asteroids, planets, comets and other space phenomena to build on or simply for ambience. You can also build spaceports in your city, containing spaceships which might take flight into the final frontier.

An example of a spaceship
- Special feature:The town could, like Venice, Italy, have a special feature. Features could include the city being connected by waterways like the aforementioned Venice, be underwater, underground, hanging from some roof, supported on arches and stilts over the land, be filled with or surrounded by walls, or be deep underground. Fitting such a theme adds a unique element to the metropolis.

- Spooky:This type of city might be built in many places depending on the theme, but dark forests and swamps, due to murky water and dark foliage, are some of the best settings for a city like this. You could remove mobs or replace passive mobs with hostile ones, but if you want an abandoned feel, their presence may be quite effective. You could use various commands to create permanent thunderstorms and night and have your city illuminated by moonlight. Use dark and dilapidated-looking materials for buildings and usestairsandslabsto emphasise disrepair. There could be graveyards (withmonster spawners), flooded houses, shrines, dungeons, trampled farms or more. You could have spooky caves near the city, to produceambiencenoises, or use command blocks to produce them. Maybe even have a statue ofHerobrineor his castle.

- Steampunk:Use architecture from the 19th century for this city type. Have infrastructure and technology be steam-powered in the city, and have many factories with lots of cogs and smokestacks. You can use airships for transportation. You can even make the city flying and "supported" by giant fans. Wooden and metal blocks also look steampunk-esque.

- Teeny town:Make a little, tiny town! Make the whole population smallmobssuch ascave spiders,spiders, small and/or tinyslime andmagma cubes, andsilverfish. Make small houses (you may even think of putting thedragon eggas a roof) out offences,slabs,pressure plates, andcarpet, usingfence gatesas doors. Use ferns and dead bushes for a touch of plant life. You can also use saplings, but be sure to put them in flower pots, or they'll grow into trees, which are far too big for a town of this scale unless you want a giant redwood forest.

- Trap city:Fill your city withtraps. You can even make the city itself a giant trap, making it impossible to escape. Building a city out of TNT or flammable blocks would make a city  entertaining as well, with the entire city destroying itself if you want it to, this might require a hardy device however. Backups of the world can be made so the city can be destroyed for the player's entertainment.

- Treetop:Build your city in any forested biome, but rather than cutting the trees down, build your city on top of them, construct or hollow out giant trees withlogs,bark,stripped logsandstripped barkblocks with buildings and pathways hanging from the trees or wrapping around and inside them. This city can be quite easy to hide, if you use blocks and armor that blend in. To defend, construct hideouts in the trees for archers. Using lava or fire is heavily discouraged, as almost everything in this city is flammable. Some of the best biomes to build this in are thejungleorOld Growth Taigabiome, due to the abundance of large trees there.

An example of a forest city
- Twin cities:Have two cities next to each other. They could be deadly enemies, or opposites like a rich and a poor city, an electric and a magic city, an evil and a good city, or an elvish and a dwarvish city.

- Underground:Build your entire city underground or in a mountain. One way to do this is by building a maze-like network of tunnels or a large cave system or chamber where the people live. Buildings could hang from or be built into the roof or walls of the cave or sit on the floor. Lighting could be provided from lava, luminescent stones and plants or rely on sunlight throughDaylight Sensorsor skylights, themes could vary widely from fantastical, to futuristic with mines, bunkers and  dwarven treasure hoards all fitting well into this category of city. A city built underground should usually be quite easy to defend and hide, as only entrances and windows are visible from the surface. A more paranoid player might want to rely onchorus fruitor [nether portal]]s as an extra step.

- Underwater:This city can be difficult to build, especially in survival due to the player's inability to breathe, see or mine effectively underwater without certain items or enchantments. Build your city in one large or a series ofglassdomes, or otherwise waterproof buildings, connected with clean-looking or transparent blocks, or have a more magical underwater setting like a merfolk city, Perhaps your city makes up the ruins of Atlantis. The entrances should be waterproof, possibly made with doors or trapdoors. It is also possible to make the entrance a tunnel, tube or cave leading to land, or sea level. This city should be easy to defend, assuming you build it deep enough, as any potential attacker would needpotions of water breathingjust to reach it.

- Upside-down:Forget logic! Make your city upside down! Make a giant ceiling, or just build midair constructing the buildings literally from top to bottom. Have all furniture fixed to the ceiling. As for the roads, you can use over-hanging bridges to connect the buildings, or you can use a Railway system. If you can fit creatures inside your upside down houses you can rename them with a "Dinnerbone" name-tag to make them upside down! Use the flip shader for help.

- UtopiaA perfect city! Build a city that is idyllic and perfect to live in in every way. Perhaps as a twist, something more sinister is going on secretly.

