## Obtaining villagers
There are two general ways to obtain villagers from the surrounding natural environment.  Once free, villagers are hard to control, but you can lead them around by placing a job site block for them, then once they have reached it and taken a profession, you can break the job block and place it further along where you want them to go.  Once you have actually traded with a villager, their profession can't change, so for those, you'll need the right job-site block for their profession.  Once you've installed them in their home, place the job-site block for the profession you want them to have, and then trade with them to make that profession permanent.

### Kidnapping from a village
An easy way to obtain villagers involves using a boat to move villagers from the nearest village to a more convenient place. Boats can be moved on level ground (without water). A villager can be made to enter the boat by pushing the villager into the conveyance (or driving it into the villager), and the villager does not leave until the boat is broken. However, boats can move only downward but not upward. You can, however, push a boat upward using a piston and a redstone torch.

### Curing a zombie villager
Catching and curing a zombie villager is another way to obtain a villager. Zombie villagers can be found in igloo basements, or in abandoned villages, but occasionally they can be found anywhere in the overworld. It is recommended to build traps (like large holes 2 or 3 blocks deep) to hunt them. They do not spawn in other cases where normal zombies may spawn; e.g. from monster spawners or as a reinforcement spawned by an attacked zombie or zombified piglin.

When found, zombie villagers must be detained and covered with a roof (or soaked in water) to prevent them from burning in sunlight. They can be cured with a splash potion of Weakness and a golden apple. At this point, they can be carried to their village with minecarts (but recommended to settle their village in the vicinity after having them).

Additionally, if you're in a snowy biome and haven't found a village, you can start up your own by finding an igloo with a basement. This is a reliable method for creating your own village in a snowy biome. In the basement of the igloo, there is a zombie villager and a cleric (in Bedrock Edition, the villager may be any profession). By curing the zombie villager, you'll have two villagers (one of them transforms into a leatherworker, due to the cauldron being their job site block), which you can transport to the top of the igloo or minecarts or upward bubble columns. 

Next, place down at least 6 valid beds around the two villagers, and give them some food (3 pieces of bread each) to make them "willing" to breed. After the two villagers breed and create a baby villager, you can create a simple infinite villager breeder. Note that villagers cannot infinitely breed without stopping, because they also need to rest at home, sleep, gossip, and work (or wander around if they are a nitwit). Additionally, they need food in order to be willing.

## Expansion
If one wants to get more villagers (and get a blacksmith, just place their job site block; smithing table for toolsmith, blast furnace for armorer and grindstone for weaponsmith), one can repeatedly add in more houses to let the villagers breed more and make more villagers. Also, if the villagers are gossiping a lot, an iron golem can spawn, which can be an aid in defense or a source of iron.

Please note that the larger your village is, the more prone it is to a zombie siege. In order for a zombie siege to occur, there must be at least 10 beds or 20 villagers and the player must be present in the village.

If you build a village in a biome where an illager patrol can spawn, be careful: Fences or walls can keep them out easily, but they try to kill villagers, and killing the patrol captain triggers a raid in your own village. If possible, let an iron golem kill the captain; otherwise, you can equip yourself with a milk bucket and/or try to kill everyone but the captain (if you accidentally kill the captain in the village, drink the milk immediately and hope for the best). Then lead the captain well away from the village (over 32 blocks from the nearest bed) to kill them, and drink the milk before returning to the village. A good option is to put the captain into a trap, like a hole in the ground.

## Tips
- You can recreate naturalvillagebuildings as much as possible, but for example, building another temple does not create more clerics; for that you need to add more brewing stands, that being a cleric'sjob siteblock.  Morevillagerssimply means the babies produced have an equal chance of getting any of the occupations that depend on the job site blocks in the village.
- You may be interested in building a villager farm; they produce villagers in extremely high densities, making it worthwhile to enclose the entire villager farm to keep out hostile mobs and make it easier to light up and navigate.
- Villagers tend to be careless. They can fall off from high places, take damage oncactior even swim inlavapools. Restrict them from such areas as much as possible by placing fences or any other kind of barricade (other than cacti, fire, or lava).
- You can add fountains,trees, parks, and the like to beautify the village.
- When night falls, villagers fail to scatter around so that they all go into a different house. Villagers seek unclaimed beds, which means if a villager cannot find any unclaimed beds, most of them would probably fail to get into the safety of their houses. To prevent this, one can make a big house with more than one bed. However, another way of protecting them is to simply sleep before hostilemobsspawn.
- Create lamp posts. This reduces the number of mobs that spawn. A plains village lamp post is usually 2 fences and a block of stripped oak wood on top, with torches on the sides of the wood. Another design could consist of (savannavillagedesign) acacia fences and torch on top of it, (desert village design)terracottaon top of 2cut sandstonewith a torch on top of terracotta, (taiga and snowy taiga design)cobblestone wallwith a torch on it, (snowy tundra design) 3 block height of spruce fence with 1 to 4lanternattached to the bottom of sided fence (or if you are lazy, just place a torch every 10 blocks).  Once you've gotten pumpkins (thewandering tradercan help), jack-o-lanterns become an option.

