### Parkour
A short parkour course, with Blocks over a pit of lava with a chest at the end. The player is expected to jump across the blocks and get to the chest for a reward.
Parkour means to jump over blocks. They are usually organized in stages. There are several kinds of jumps, ranging from corner jumps, S-jumps, and ladder jumps. These maps are a test of agility and timing.

### Creative
These are maps with no real goal in mind. They often have stunning scenery or mechanics. The website Planet Minecraft is filled with these. They can sometimes have a purpose, like as a map for a server.

### Adventure
Complete a long and winding storyline. Often has lots of content. Sometimes puzzle, sometimes action, sometimes parkour. You cannot break any blocks in these maps, unless specifically told or allowed otherwise.

### Horror
Generally an Adventure map with jumpscares and a dark/ambiguous storyline. Ghosts, past memories, death, and locked-in are common themes.

## Sharing maps
** Java Edition **
For importing a map, you will first need to open the minecraft saves folder. This can be found by opening the launcher, clicking Launch Options, and clicking Open Game Dir. Once you are in the .minecraft folder, navigate to the saves folder and find the world you want to share. To make it easier to send to others, you will probably want to compress the folder into a zip file.

Optionally, you can also go to a site such as MediaFire or CurseForge and find their uploads screen. Paste the file in and follow the instructions. The Internet can now see your creation!

** Bedrock Edition **
Exporting a map is easiest on Windows 10. In Windows 10, open Minecraft and click edit on the world you wish to share. Scroll to the bottom and click the "Export World" button and choose a location to save the .mcworld file to.

On mobile, you will first need to locate the Minecraft folder. In iOS, you can access this in the “Files” app in the "On My iPhone” or “On My iPad” or “On My iPod” category. Once in the Minecraft folder, you will need to go to "Minecraft/games/com.mojang/minecraftWorlds/" In this folder, you can find all of your Minecraft worlds in folders with randomized names. It may be helpful to sort the folders by date modified.

Once you have found the desired world, you can verify its name by opening the "levelname" file contained inside. If you compress the contents of the folder (not the folder itself) and rename it to have a .mcworld extension rather than .zip, it should be easy to share and open in Minecraft.

Please note that you can also not compress the map and change the extension to .mcworld and just share the world as a folder. But to import the map as folder format you will have to drag the world folder manually to Minecraft/games/com.mojang/minecraftWorlds/ folder.

## Compressing maps
Large maps files can get very big, however there are ways to combat this by reducing the total file size. Keep in mind that every map will have a file size, larger maps much more so. It is impossible to get a map below 1kb, but some can be as little as 200kb. Note that this information is written for Java Edition and may not be the same for Bedrock Edition.

### Removing player data
A lot of maps don't require prior knowledge of the player playing it before it is loaded for the first time, and most of the time the final release has no reason to keep old player data generated by the developer(s). If your map doesn't require any playerdata, such as someone's advancements, position, inventory, or otherwise player-specific data, you can remove the "advancements", "playerdata", and "stats" folders found in the root of the map folder. If your map has custom advancements, do not delete those. Only delete the advancements folder inside the root of the map. (.minecraft/saves/Map_Name/advancements, not .minecraft/saves/Map_Name/datapacks/Maps_Datapack/data/namespace/advancements)

### Removing automatically generated files
Both session.lock and level.dat_old are files that are not needed to be packed along with the map file. You can safely delete both these files, since they will be regenerated once the map is loaded. You can also remove the "poi" folder, but this will incur a slightly longer loading time. The "poi" folder will be regenerated on map load.

### Minifying JSON files
JSON is meant to be read both with and without newlines. We can remove all newlines that are part of the JSON file (be sure not to remove any "\n" inside strings!) to reduce its file size. You can also remove spaces between JSON values. Minifying JSON files doesn't save that much space since they are made of text. However, over a large number of files, the space saved could add up.


For example, the JSON:
[
  "",
  {
    "text": "To do list: ",
    "color": "blue",
    "underlined": true
  }
]

can be shorted to:
[{"text":"To do list:","color": "blue","underlined":true}]

Here, we remove the spaces and newlines between the "text", "color", and "underlined" values. Note that spaces inside the "text" string were not removed. The useless "", at the start was also removed as it serves no purpose. Some generators erroneously add that. The trailing space at the end was removed; however this might not always be wanted. Be careful when editing "text" strings. If your resource pack has a custom language file, you can compress that as well.

