## Defeating the monument
The first step is to get inside the monument, which can sometimes be difficult as guardians spawn outside the monument and can attack you. There are several ways you can get in:

- Go in the front door. You might throw anender pearlto get there quickly, dive from above, or run along the seafloor withDepth StriderIII-enchanted boots. Bear in mind that ender pearls are significantly slowed down by water, meaning they can only be used to teleport short distances.
- Mine through the roof above the elder guardians' rooms. It helps to drop blocks of sand around the gazebo at the top to build a quick bunker around the site. Clear the water out using slime blocks or other instantly minable blocks, dig a hole in the roof and shoot the top elder guardian with a bow to kill it and get your first sponge, and work your way down. InJava Edition, use milk to counteract the Mining Fatigue. In Bedrock Edition, milk removes Mining Fatigue for no more than one second so milk isn't useful; instead, use the correct tool (shovel for sand, pickaxe for stone, hoe for sponges, etc.) for each block you mine (gold tools are most efficient but wear out quickly), preferably enchanted with Efficiency, and you can actually make progress under constant Mining Fatigue.
- Tunnel up from below. For this you'll almost certainly need milk to counteract the Mining Fatigue, meaning that it is impractical on Bedrock Edition. An efficient way to use this method would be to bring a cow and a few buckets. One of the safest ways to do this is to mine below the ocean's floor until you get to below the structure. From there you can mine up one of the 4×4 columns using a 2×2 spiral staircase, or simply using ladders if you want. Ideally, you bring a cow and a few buckets to a base you make underneath the monument, that way you can get milk much quicker.
- InJava Edition, if the player creates a platform over the apex of the monument, TNT can be activated and dropped down and an elder guardian can be killed without any structural damage. If structural damage is preferred, sand or gravel can be dropped after the activated TNT, which causes the TNT explode inside the sand block, dealing structural damage. This method can be repeated over the left and right wing of the monument, to kill the rest of the elder guardians. This can also be done underwater, by placing a sand/gravel block on top of the placed TNT before detonation.

Once inside, it can be advantageous to set up a base of operations. Doors or slime blocks can be used to seal any entrances to a chosen room, and sponge blocks can be used to quickly clear it of water. Then you might move in resources such as furnaces for drying sponges, chests to hold potions and other supplies, a bed in case you die, a nether portal for easier access via the Nether, and a cow for milk refills.

A conduit can be set up in a 3 block high undrained room for up to 31 blocks worth of Conduit Power merely by placing a slime block, honey block, block of TNT or decorated pot on the floor one block diagonally in from the corner, placing the conduit on top and breaking the block. This removes any worries about air and helps speed up breaking through the prismarine if that is necessary.

Your goal inside the monument is to take out the elder guardians to eliminate the Mining Fatigue III that hinders your ability to obtain the resources from the monument. There are three per monument: one in the "penthouse" at the very top and one in each of the wings flanking the main entrance. The elders themselves are not extremely difficult if you're prepared with strong armor and weapons, since they move and attack relatively slowly, but finding them within the maze can pose a challenge. It might help to wall off dead ends as you investigate them, and note that the wings are connected by a long hallway around the back of the monument that bypasses the maze. Alternatively, you could simply mine through the ceiling of the elder guardians' rooms with a high-level Efficiency pickaxe, to counteract Mining Fatigue.

After that is done you can simply raid the monument of its sea lanterns, sponges, prismarine, and gold and leave. Alternatively, you can turn it into a base or a guardian farm. Now that Mining Fatigue is no longer an issue, you can use any method you'd like to accomplish this. If you were lucky enough to find a sponge room (or three), the sponges are particularly helpful in this task, as the sponges soak up a lot of the water. Even if you did not find a sponge room, you can use the sponges from the elder guardians, or previously-obtained sponges from other monuments.

## Aftermath
Once you are done raiding, you can do these things:

- Leave. Elder guardians don't respawn but regular guardians do respawn.
- Turn it into a guardian farm.Guardian farmsproduce tons of experience and prismarine. You also get fish and ink sacs as byproducts. If your guardian farm uses fire to kill the guardians, all the fish from one hour of AFK can feed a player for a long time and possibly feed an entire server. You can write down the coordinates or lay a path to remember the location of the monument.
- Turn it into a base. It is recommended to drain the ocean monument and all guardian spawning spaces. The building is very large and you can add a lot to it. Add all necessary items, such as crafting table and furnaces, enchanting and anvil + grindstone, blacksmith area with smithing table, and villager trading hall. You can also build a guardian farm in your base, although it is smaller and less efficient. If your guardian farm doesn't use fire to kill the guardians, you get raw fish, which you can sell to fisherman villagers for a good source of emeralds.
- Turn it into avillage, drain all the water using sponges and move invillagers. Addbedsand job site blocks for the villagers, and a different villager can sleep in each room of the monument. Be sure to keep aniron golemin the village, so the guardians don't scare the villagers away! Guardians don't attack iron golems so one iron golem is fine, but build a barrier around the monument to the ocean surface sodrownedcannot come in.
- Destroy the monument. Use a pickaxe and water breathing potions to mine all the prismarine blocks. HavingAqua AffinityandRespirationenchantments on your helmet can make this easier. This doesn't prevent guardians from spawning at the monument's locations, however.


