#### 2-block tall pillar
When piglin brutes are rushing towards you, and there is no low ceiling, you may want to pillar up 2 blocks. Standing on a 2 block tall column will prevent piglins from being able to reach you.  However, a third block is required if you wish to attack the piglin brutes.  Otherwise, the vertical knockback from your attacks might provide enough height for them to knock you off your platform.  Alternatively, if you are in a situation where you can't place the third block, piglins cannot swim in lava, meaning lava can be used to safely take out brutes without fear of them swimming upward.

When building your safety pillar, make sure there are no piglins nearby that can use a crossbow to shoot you off your pillar.  Additionally, be mindful of what's above you when you pillar up, or else you may get ambushed from above.

#### Diamond and Netherite Armor
As mentioned above, the high amount of damage that piglin brutes deal in a single hit will cause your armor to suffer a massive penalty.  To mitigate this, bring either diamond or netherite armor, as in addition to the extra armor points the sets give, both give an extra stat called armor toughness, which reduces the severity of any armor reduction caused by an attack.  Using a full set of diamond armor halves the armor reduction that you receive, while a full set of unenchanted iron armor would only reduce damage by 22% in Hard mode [(armor points x 4%) - (damage x 2%)] = 60% - 38% = 22%, a full set of unenchanted diamond armor would reduce damage by 61% [(armor points x 4%) - (damage x 1%)] = 80% - 19% = 61%.

#### Boats
When piglin brutes are rushing towards you, you can simply place boats in front of their pathfinding. If you do this correctly, the piglin brutes will enter the boats while running towards you.  Once they are in the boats, they are stuck; they are unable to exit or break the boats. You still do not want to go too close to the boats or hop in the boat, as the piglin brutes can still attack players within their reach. Using a ranged weapon will be the safest option to kill them, however a sword or axe will do the job if far away enough.

#### Lava Bucket
Arguably one of the strongest items you can bring to a bastion due to the fact that unlike most Nether mobs, all piglins, brutes included, are not immune to fire damage, which makes lava buckets a very efficient way to kill them. Simply use the lava bucket on the block underneath the piglin brute to deal high amounts of damage.  Additionally, Minecraft does not keep track of who places lava, meaning lava buckets can be used to deal damage without alerting other nearby piglins. However, remember that lava flows 3x as fast and twice as far in the Nether, so a single lava source could potentially kill lots of piglins or make exploring the bastion harder. This is why you might want to quickly refill your bucket and place the lava again over and over until the brute dies.

Using a lava bucket prevents the piglin brute from dropping any experience upon death.  However, the ability to damage piglin brutes without aggravating other piglins usually makes this option worth it.

#### Summoning Iron Golems
If you have enough inventory space to hold iron blocks and carved pumpkins, then consider how powerful iron golems are. Iron golems automatically attack piglin brutes, and can kill them in 3 to 8 hits, with an average of a 4-hit kill (Observing that on average, the iron golem will do 15 × 7.5 damage). Also, because iron golems have so much health, they can take 6-20 hits (Depending on two factors, difficulty and edition. The easier the difficulty, the smaller the damage piglin brutes do, and Bedrock Edition piglin brutes do less damage). Healing the iron golems with iron ingots will make the golem last longer. Additionally, due to the fact that the golems were created by you, they will not attack you should you accidentally hit one.  However, they will attack your friends when aggravated, so care should still be taken if you are tackling the bastion remnant on multiplayer.

#### Blocking Yourself Off
If a piglin brute is closely chasing you in a corridor with a ceiling too low to build a pillar, your best bet is to rapidly place any solid block to block yourself off. Once the piglin brute is blocked off, you can then mine one of the blocks away, making sure the piglin brute doesn't have a gap to get through and reach you. Once you can see the piglin brute through the gap in the wall you built, shoot the piglin brute until it dies. Or more riskily, kill it with a melee weapon. The latter is incredibly risky as there is a chance they will still be able to hit you and deal massive damage.

