### Respawn Anchor
If you tend to die a bunch in the Nether, bring a respawn anchor. It will enable you to set a spawn point anywhere in the Nether. Bring glowstone blocks to charge it up. Make a safe room with a crafting table, and a chest to hold glowstone. You will know when it is ready because the top will have the nether portal texture, the circle will be full and the area will be lit up. Right click once more to set respawn. Be careful though it has only four charges. When you die, you will respawn there and it will use a charge. You can charge it up if you have more glowstone.

## Finding a Nether Fortress
If you are playing in 1.16 or after, the apparent distance between nether fortresses was dramatically increased in the 1.16 Nether Update. Be prepared to venture several hundred blocks, possibly even thousands, in multiple directions to find the fortress. But once you have found the fortress itself, its fruit is sweet.

### Basic Tips
- When traversing the Nether to search, especially if you have foundgolden applesor have enchanted your armor, simply wear a suit of unenchanted iron armor while you explore. There are many hostile mobs in the Nether and you might never be able to retrieve your items if you die. If you fall into a lava sea, all your items are pretty much guaranteed to be incinerated.
- You are looking for a large structure that stands out from the ordinary red (or grey or blue, depending on your biome). It's massive and made out of dark red bricks. How box-looking some parts are should serve as a peculiar feature. Some other things you might stumble on:
	- You have found a small broken portal, perhaps with some stairs or slabs ofblackstone. These areruined portals, and contain a loot chest andblocks of gold. Be careful, as opening the chest and mining the blocks of gold will provoke nearbypiglins.
	- You have found a large towering black structure, smaller than a nether fortress but imposing nevertheless. This is abastion remnant, which contains many blocks of gold and loot chests (maybe even amagma cubespawnerif you're lucky) but if you're playing 1.16.2 and up these are best saved for late game, and even in 1.16-1.16.1 they are best saved for after you conquer the nether fortress and have potions (see below).
- Got asaddle? Great. Found a biome of blue with blue trees andendermen? Even better. Harvest somewarped fungusfrom thewarped forestbiome, makewarped fungus on a stick, and now you can ride the small red mobs (calledstriders) that spawn frequently in lava seas. These are incredibly useful for traversing Nether seas, especially large ones where you might not be able to see the other side. You can also simply sit on one and snipe at nearby mobs that might try to kill you.
- If you are annoyed with trying to find a nether fortress and have cheats turned on, you can run the command/locate fortresswhich will return the coordinates of the nearest nether fortress. If you have the seed of your world you can enter it intoChunkBase.comor other external seed maps which will show you where all the nether fortresses in your world are.
- Turning your render distance up will allow you to see farther, but it will also increase the lag on your computer, a possibly fatal factor if you are ambushed. Moreover, because of thenether fog, you won't be able to see farther than about 12 chunks, so a higher render distance won't help you from that point upward. Instead of turning up your render distance, you could install a resource pack fromBedrock Tweaksor other websites to increase visibility in the Nether.

### Advanced Tips
Nether structure generation in Java Edition. The black lines represent each region and the dots represent coordinates. Green is where they can generate and red is where they cannot.
Nether structure generation in Bedrock Edition. The black lines represent each region and the dots represent coordinates. Green is where they can generate and red is where they cannot.
When you create your nether portal near your spawn point in the Overworld, your original nether portal will be close to the world center in the Nether. This might be hard to understand, but the Nether is divided into several hundred block wide regions, each containing either a nether fortress or a bastion remnant. Four of the closest of these regions surround the center of the Nether, on the northwest, northeast, southwest and southeast directions. You preferably want to find a close nether fortress, so you can revisit it whenever you need more blaze rods and wither skulls. So you want to check out each of these four regions to know if a fortress is in there or not. If you see a bastion remnant, you can guarantee that there will not be a fortress in the same region. At this point, turn around and search another region, until you find a nether fortress.

There is a chance that your world will not have a fortress within the four closest regions. Since the chance for a fortress to generate in a region is 2⁄5 (40%) in Java Edition and 1⁄3 (33.3%) in Bedrock Edition, there is only a 13.0% chance in Java Edition and a 19.8% chance in Bedrock Edition that this is the case. So be prepared if there are no close-by fortresses in your world, but also keep in mind that there's more likely to be a nearby fortress than if there isn't.

