#### Materials
- The base machinery includes threedroppers, adispenser, threehoppers, a chest, a couple oflevers, two redstone repeaters, two redstone torches, and six redstone dust. Making that equipment from scratch will cost a minimum of 6 smooth stone, 15 iron, 29 cobblestone, 10 "logs" of wood (with some bits left over), 18 redstone dust, and 3 string. Also needed are 7 solidopaqueblocks, and several that can be opaque or transparent. The chest can optionally be doubled (another 2 wood), and you may well want another chest elsewhere in the egg room, for ordinary storage.
- The 9×9 floor inside the room will need 78 additional blocks or slabs (if the optional second chest is used, then at least the space above it needs to be a slab). You may want a trapdoor from the chicken floor to the egg room; the water not only won't flow through the trapdoor, but will generally prevent chickens from slipping down there too.
- The pillar will be a slab and another two blocks, one of which should be a jack-o-lantern or other light source. Even a block with four torches will do, but you do need a light there to keep the chicks from drowning themselves at the edges.
- The roof will need at least 10 solid blocks to intercept eggs (3×3 over the dispenser, and one topping the pillar). The rest of the ceiling can be filled in with slabs.
- The walls should be solid blocks, at least 2 high (the ceiling layer will usually be a third) This will cost most of 80 blocks of stone and/or glass (or 20 wood "logs" converted to planks). Doors can be best placed in the middle of any wall, or all four of them. Given creepers, it's much safer to make at least the floor and the bottom row of the wall out of blast resistant blocks: Any stone will do, as will brick or hardened clay, or even obsidian. This will minimize the mess if it does get blasted, and make it much easier to fix up. Making the top row out of glass blocks lets you see in and out of the farm, which helps avoid creeper blasts in the first place. You can also surround it with other protections such as a moat, which would prevent creepers from damaging the blocks even if they do explode.
- If you've been to the Nether, you can add a comparator and redstone lamp, with a bit of dust and maybe a repeater to connect them.  This lets you set up a convenient display outside the building, to show when the egger has enough eggs for a full run.

#### Building it
Once the walls are set up, it is easiest to build the egg room from above. Make sure to offset the room so the input hopper is in the center of the floor, and light the egg room properly. When orienting the room, think about where you want the access tunnel to go. As shown, an access corridor leading to the lower left of the diagram allows getting at all the containers and both switches.

The hatcher consists of two droppers facing up, with a dispenser facing up on top of them. These are fed by the hoppers, with the chest providing extra storage, and driven by a 3-clock. The clock is on the right edge of the diagram, from the block with the lever southwards and downwards. That lever lets you disable the hatcher completely—place it and turn it on as soon as the clock is built, so you can build the rest without clicking noises.

The despawn timer (upper edge of diagram) is a dropper facing down over pressure plate. It works by dropping an item onto the pressure plate, which will turn off the torch and enable the clock until the item despawns. The block in front of the pressure plate helps avoid accidentally picking up the item as you pass near, but if you go close enough you can still pick it up and cut off the timer. Once you've built and connected the despawn timer, you can turn the lever back off, as the inactive timer will keep the clock disabled. The despawn timer's dropper can be loaded with any disposable item, such as surplus seeds or eggs. The block in front of the pressure plate is just to make it a little harder to accidentally pick up the item—glass will let you see if the item is on target, or has missed the pressure plate.

Once the egg room is built and closed over, continue with the central pillar: Above the hopper, place a top slab, then two blocks above that. You can make the lower one a jack-o-lantern, for simple lighting. From the top block of the pillar, extend a roof out over the dispenser and at least one square around it in every direction. Put a torch on the roof to avoid unfortunate monster spawns. Note that if you use slabs, you may get chicks on top of the roof. If you have the minimum roof, they'll just fall into the water, but if you want to extend the roof to the edges, use non-transparent blocks to avoid escapees.

Note that the dispenser is purposely separated from the collection hopper/central pillar, to allow for the dispenser's variable aim. The slab (or other transparent block) between them is only needed if you add the optional chest, but if you do, an opaque block there will prevent the chest from being opened. Note that as of version 1.14, you can place the optional chest without connecting it to the main chest. It will still feed into the egger, but may be useful for stashing extra eggs, especially when you are about to harvest and want space in the main chest for feathers and meat.

Last of all, place buckets of water in each corner; they will flow to the central pillar. Load up your chest with eggs and/or lead in some chickens, and just hit the button. Then let the eggs accumulate until you have enough for a full run (at least a dozen stacks in the chest).  (If you are starting with just a few chickens and/or eggs, an early run with just a few stacks can get you a few more chickens to fill the system more quickly.)  If you have many eggs, you might want to do a longer run by disabling the despawn timer (add a lever to the block for its output torch), or just do a second run immediately when the first finishes.

If you have glowstone and nether quartz, you can optionally add a couple of top slabs on level one, next to the hoppers.  Atop these you'll want a comparator facing out from the main chest, and next to it something to provide a comparison signal of 8.  This corresponds to 13 stacks in the chest, which is enough for a full run.  A cake with three slices eaten will do fine.  You can then run a redstone trail from the comparator to a redstone lamp.  Embedding the lamp in the ground near the entrance can let you reach it with 8 or less dust; any further, and you'll need a repeater in there too.  This is not shown in the schematic, because without it this build does not need Nether materials.

