## Ender chest
The ender chest is one of the most useful items in the game. The items inside of one ender chest are accessible in all other ender chests. Due to the massive amounts of obsidian present in the End, it is easy to make an ender chest for each building or area of the End. Blaze powder or rods used to make ender chests must be collected from blazes beforehand. Also, don't forget that ender chests can be destroyed by the ender dragon.

## End Survival Challenge
This survival challenge is similar to the "Starting in the Nether", but it is starting in the End. The challenge is shorter than the nether survival but is more dangerous. You have to use cheats to teleport yourself to the end outer islands. The game must be on hardcore mode, because if you die, you end up in the overworld, which is cheating. Do not set your spawn point in the end because the exit portal always takes you to your spawn point. Once you are there, you can start the game.

Since there is no wood and animals in the end, your first goal is to get food. Gather at least 2 stacks of chorus fruit by breaking a chorus tree. Chorus fruit restores 4 hunger points but teleports you randomly. Your next goal it to find an end city to get tools, weapons, and armor. You don't have to kill the shulkers, but block the bullets by punching them. If you are at a large shulker tower, let one bullet hit you and punch the rest of the bullets so they can't kill you. Once you make it to the top, there are 2 chests containing enchanted diamond and iron armor and tools. Don't wear anything with curse of binding because you cannot get rid of it. The treasure room also has chests, one chest and an ender chest. If you have a silk touch pickaxe, you can break the ender chest. Take all the treasure and kill the shulkers. If you got a pickaxe, you can mine end stone and purpur. Mine some blocks and bridge to the ship if there is one. Take the elytra, loot, and potions and kill the shulkers. Make sure you have good inventory management because you cannot make shulker boxes without crafting table. Raid more end cities to find more armor and tools and weapons. Your next goal it to find a return end gateway or build a 1000 block bridge back to the end central island. 

Once you make it back to the central island, you have to kill the ender dragon. Pillar up to the towers and block yourself with end stone before punching the crystal in order to reduce damage. Repeat for the other towers. For the caged towers, break the iron bars from under and punch the crystal to reduce damage. Since you don't have a bow and arrows, stand in the exit portal and hit the ender dragon when it perches. Watch out for dragon fireballs and keep attacking until the dragon it dead. Gather all the experience. To get the dragon egg, get a torch from the exit portal and punch the dragon egg so it teleports onto end stone. Mine 2 blocks down from the block next to the dragon egg and break the block 2 blocks under the egg. Place a torch and break the block the egg is on. The egg drops and you can collect it. Now you can return to the overworld and continue as normal.


