### Evading the warden
Even the above strategies are not entirely foolproof, and it is still possible for something to go wrong and for the warden to spawn sometime during your explorations. When you hear a loud rumbling and growling noise, you can see the warden rising up out of the ground when it spawns. If this happens, you can still somewhat easily evade the warden without dying. When the warden spawns you have 7 seconds to get as far away as possible before it finishes its spawning animation and begins to track nearby vibrations/smells.  During its spawning animation, you can sprint away from the warden without any consequences.  However, this comes at the risk of alerting even more shriekers, which can spawn a second warden if the first warden is at a far enough distance.  It may be tempting to sprint away after the animation finishes, but this creates noise that the warden can hear, increasing the likelihood of it giving chase (and likely killing you in the process). You must keep sneaking and slowly move away, unless the warden has already begun chasing you. 

If you can't seem to get away from the warden because it keeps sniffing your location, then Arrows, Eggs, or Snowballs can be used to distract it.  However, if you choose to distract the warden then there are four things to bear in mind: 

- First,don't shoot the warden by accident.If your projectile hits the warden, it instantly notices you and begins chasing you.
- Second, try to make sure there is a reasonable distance between the warden and the block your projectile lands on.  If the projectile lands within 5 blocks of the warden, it begins to catch on to what you are doing and become more likely to see through your distraction.  No seriously, wardens are smart.
- Third, the warden notices if multiple projectiles are being fired in rapid succession.  If a second projectile lands within 5 seconds of the first projectile, then the warden immediately recognizes that you are creating a distraction and quickly targets you if said behavior continues.
- Fourth, if you are too close to the warden, it might hear you throwing the projectile.
- And finally,alwaysstay away from the warden if doing so. If you are too close to the warden for too long, your distractions become useless and take away from time you could use escaping.

Avoid creating too much noise if possible.  The warden is blind and instead operates by sound, using noise to pinpoint whatever it was that awakened it. If it cannot hear anything, then it just roams around randomly, sniffing the air, waiting for any noise to happen, though it can still detect an entity if they get too close to the warden or bump into it. Over time, standing too close to the Warden (within 20 blocks) causes it to begin pinpointing the player's location by scent, so keeping a fair distance and escaping is important. If the warden hears too much noise, something gets too close to it, or sniffs you too many times, it roars and begins chasing its target. 

Unfortunately, if the warden does decide to chase you, its fast movement speed, ludicrous melee damage, and its armor and enchantment-piercing sonic boom attack makes escape incredibly difficult.  However, it is still possible, especially if you have prepared for such an emergency beforehand.  One escape method is to sprint to somewhere the warden cannot follow, such as though a two block high gap (wardens are just as tall as Endermen) and then try to get further away from there. Be warned that if you didn't create a hole about 30 blocks long before, the warden can still attack and kill you with its sonic boom attack. 

Another strategy is to pillar-jump upward by placing blocks underneath your feet until you are higher than the warden. You need to be much higher because the warden can melee attack up to 5 blocks above itself, and 30 blocks with its ranged sonic boom attack, which it can use 10 seconds after it has started chasing you.  Once you are a couple blocks up, continue upward (if possible) until you can reach the cave ceiling, then dig into it to create a small cavity and wait there for things to calm down. If you cannot see the warden, then listen to its heartbeat: the warden's heartbeat slows down when it is no longer angry, and even further if it can't find you for a while.  Alternatively, if you're patient enough, you can wait at the ceiling until the warden despawns entirely.

If you sprint through a corridor with wool on the floor, you run silently provided you stay on the wool.  While this doesn't slow down the warden, the lack of noise vibrations may allow you to lose the warden's aggression sooner.  These corridors are rather large and span throughout the center of the city, so they aren't too hard to find.

Should you die to a warden, don't panic.  Instead, the best way is to wait patiently at a distance for the warden to despawn.  If the warden fails to detect any vibrations or smell nearby entities for 60 seconds, then it burrows back into the ground and disappears.  Meanwhile, your items stay on the ground for up to 5 minutes (300 seconds) before disappearing, giving you plenty of time to pick them up once the warden despawns.  However, if the warden is able to hear/smell you or another mob, then its 60-second despawn timer resets, giving you less time to retrieve your items.

### 
Wardens are attracted to noise. At first, this may seem annoying, but if you use a block that makes noise, like a bell or note block, and link it to a redstone clock, the warden is attracted to it. This is a high-risk, high-reward strategy, so use at your own risk.
However, this doesn't consider some elements. If this is built before the warden has spawned, the noise alerts a sculk shrieker or sensor, which spawns a warden, and this takes some time to build, therefore it is difficult to build after the warden has spawned. The warden also has a sense of smell, so if you stay too close for too long or if the warden is aggravated at you, then using distractions is not an option.

