### 
By taking advantage of the above strategies, it is theoretically possible to simply brute-force your way into and through the Ancient city, if you have the patience for it. This is extremely tedious to say the least, but it could allow you to eventually reach the loot in the city and clear it out without having to face the warden at all. You must, however, be aware of where the exit is and be ready at all times to turn around and immediately make your way back to and through that exit to safety and then wait for things to calm down and return later to continue on.

Simply put; make sure that you have a safe escape route ready and available, ideally one that leads all the way back to the surface. After that, make your way into the city (by sneaking) and then simply start breaking every Sculk Catalyst, Sculk Sensor and Sculk Shrieker you can find. This causes an absolute cacophony of noise and surely causes the warden to spawn in short order. In that case, you simply need to turn around and quickly begin making your way toward the exit mentioned earlier, distracting the warden away from you as needed, and once far enough away, leave the ancient city and wait for about 60 seconds to allow the warden to despawn (ideally you should wait a bit longer to account for potential delays). Once the warden has despawned, you may safely return back and start breaking Sculk Sensors and Sculk Shriekers again, and leave once again when the warden appears and returning once more when the warden has despawned again. By repeating this cycle continuously, then as long as a sculk catalyst does not generate any new sculk sensors or sculk shriekers, the ancient city eventually runs out of them in the long run as the player gradually breaks them all one by one.

Also, the alert levels of shriekers go down over time, making it so you can just wait 30 minutes to do one large go and leave to finish it another time.

### 
Ancient Cities don't just have insane loot, but being so deep underground heavily increases the chance of valuable ores such as diamonds and gold. As a result, if you have an iron pickaxe, you can mine these ores to get yourself a diamond sword—just avoid summoning a warden in before you're ready, though. Once you've done so, what happens next somewhat relies on luck and generation. Once you have your diamond gear, get an anvil and look in all of the loot chests. Often, Ancient Cities have Enchanted Apples and some sort of Sharpness book in some of the chests. Use the sharpness books to enchant your sword, and gather as many golden apples as you possibly can. Then you're going to need a tunnel, at least 34 blocks long (it must be 30 blocks long to escape the warden's sonic boom, but you can make it 34 blocks to be safe). Make sure at least the entrance to this tunnel is 2 blocks tall. Here's where the loot takes its toll: without coming out of the tunnel, get close to the warden and use your sword- which you should've enchanted with the books possibly found here- to spam attack the warden. If it sonic booms you, eat your enchanted apples to heal rapidly. Be careful though- your amount of enchanted apples may be limited. Also, don't get too confident. Stay at least 1 block away from the entrance, otherwise the warden can melee attack you, in which case not even the enchanted apple can save you.

### Straight up looting
As already stated, wool is your best friend in ancient cities (aside from night vision potions and pickaxes for mining escape routes), because it suppresses your sound even if you aren't sneaking. This is incredibly useful for this strategy. Don't even bother trying to break the sensors or shriekers. Just surround any sensors, shriekers, or chests with wool. Of course, you'll need to scout the area well before opening the chest to avoid making a mistake. But once you've done so, open the chest and grab all the loot you like. Repeat this process for every single loot chest, and once you're satisfied with your gatherings, you can head back up to the surface and store your treasures back home. And once again, feel free to mine some ores while you're down there, as they're much more common deep underground.

### Getting into the redstone lab
There is a redstone lab under the center of every ancient city. You can find the city center easily because it has a massive structure made of reinforced deepslate on top. The secret door to the lab can be opened only by a specific method, which is random each time. First, you must find the chest in front of the "warden face" and open it. Then grab the golden carrot inside the chest and go down to the bridge opposite to the chest (don’t eat the carrot yet). Finally, go under the center: the two recessed deepslate walls are the doors. To open the door, go to the door that has a chiseled deepslate block on it and eat the golden carrot. This activates the sculk sensor behind the door and opens it. If there is a golden apple, then eat it while on the tiled deepslate to open the door. When there is two walls, walk between them to open the door. If there's nothing, then walk on tiles to the left of the door where you would normally find the chest to open it. At the moment, the lab does not contain any noteworthy loot, apart a lot of redstone blocks, which are not particularly rare, but it has educational purpose for new players, as it teaches them about how sculk sensors can be used for wireless redstone. It could also be a secret base after you remove the stuff inside and fully secure the ancient city.

