### level.dat
You can edit level.dat file using an NBT editor such as NBTExplorer to get to Far Lands.

### World customization and mods
Using customized worlds (before Java Edition 1.13) to crank up the Coordinate Scale option to high enough numbers can cause the area where the Far Lands would be to be walkably close to the origin of the world. The Far Lands can then be activated using mods.[2] This will probably not cause as much lag as conventional methods since the gravel falling bug is only due to excessive effects and not the terrain.

Changing the Height Scale up to similarly high options (such as 134000000) will generate the Sky Far Lands, without mods.

### Version switching
You can make a new world in modern Java edition and run the following command /tp @p 12550810 128 12550810 Leave modern Java edition and go to Beta 1.7.3 or older. If you suffocate, repeat the process again. If you do this at the correct Y position, you should see the Far Lands. They cannot be reached by creating a superflat world and travelling many blocks, as the Far Lands cannot generate on a Superflat world.

## What to do at the Far Lands
When at the Far Lands, prepare for lag if you don't have a really beefy computer. The section below this one can help, but a decently good computer/laptop is required for a great experience. Once at the Far Lands, just enjoy the area. You could try to see some corruptions in terrain which are quite interesting. Good luck. (To your computers, of course.)

### Avoiding lag
The Far Lands are a very laggy place, due to excessive coordinates and entities; however, the lag can be lessened by the following means.

The difficulty could be switched to peaceful so that no hostile mobs spawn inside of the Far Lands and lag your computer.

If the Far Lands are ported (see below), and the player has access to commands, the /gamerule doMobSpawning false command will stop mobs from spawning, and the /kill @e[type=!player,r=300] command can be used to remove excessive entities in the vicinity (use about 3 times per minute for greater efficiency; although it will kill any entity other than the players, including minecarts, paintings, potentially useful mobs etc.; 300 can be any desired distance), and /gamerule doEntityDrops false can disallow sand and gravel dropping as items (but mobs wouldn’t drop anything either) (sand and gravel will not cause excessive drops in Far Lands made to spawn closer). If not ported, use mods and/or multiplayer to get appropriate commands. Alternatively, if the terrain is ported, it can be possible to also perform the first command with the use of command blocks, along with a redstone clock. Also, if you are using Minecraft 1.9 or newer, you may use a command block on the “repeat” setting, along with toggling “always active”. Another option is to add lag reducing mods, like Optifine or Fastcraft.

Additionally, the render distance could be brought down to render less of the area, which can help with the lag. Looking at the sky leaves lag-inducing entities away from the point of view, also lessening the lag. 

However, if you want to play on beta and you cannot install Single player commands, you can remove the lagging entities from an area via some precise saving and re-logging. you would to this by first NBT editing yourself to 500 blocks away from the Far lands and start walking to them. Keeping f3 open, when you see the Far Lands and the entity count starts rapidly stuttering, you save and quit then reopen the world, when you join back you have to press escape and open the menu as fast as possible, then you relog back and walk around long enough to check whether the entity count is stuttering rapidly. If it is not stuttering, then you have cleared that portion of land from lag. if it is still stuttering then you need to keep relogging and checking the count till it calms down. This whole process is kind of just luck since the entity counter seems to calm down at random points, if you can clear out a lot of terrain in one go, that's better but if you can't do it in time and the entity counter calms down at 2000-3000, then you are going to be left with residue lag and have to manually destroy the gravel entities on the ground. Alternately you can get the entity counter to stop going up steadily but it will still be dilating up and down a bit, this is a semi stable state and is the most common state for the Entity relog, while it is easiest to get it to this, its not the best because you can easily make it unstable again, although doing this is a bit more uncommon. To get a fully stable piece of land is the best but it is tedious, annoying and the chance of doing this while still beating the entity counter is stupidly unlikely, to get this you just keep relogging until the entity counter doesn't dilate rapidly at all. Unfortunately, sometimes hitting a semi stable state is not possible when you are deep in the farlands, or in the corner farlands, in this case you have to hit a fully stable state, which involves saving on the same frame that all the randomly falling gravel in the area has finished falling or gets destroyed but has not reloaded yet.

