### Commands
Commands weren’t available in Minecraft singleplayer until after the Far Lands were removed, but if the player is on a beta multiplayer server, then the player can do the /tp command.

- /tp (<targets>|<destination>|<x>)or/tp (<targets>|<destination>|<x>)to teleport near the Edge Far Lands. Make sure flying is on or player damage is off, as it teleports above the height limit. 0 can be really anything between roughly -12,550,820 and 12,550,820.
- /tp (<targets>|<destination>|<x>)to teleport near the Corner Far Lands. Also make sure you’re protected from falling damage.

In both above cases, 12550800 can be negative.

In the Nether, these commands will teleport you above the top layer of bedrock, so make sure to either teleport lower, turn "no-clip" on, use Spectator mode if possible, or a combination of them.

To not get instantly hit by loads of lag, it can be better to teleport to a few hundred meters away from the Far Lands or if using a mod, use lag reducing mods such as Optifine or Fastcraft.

(Note: In relatively recent versions of pocket edition, while teleporting to the above coordinates is still possible, terrain generates as normal but the player cannot move freely) CAUTION may crash or break your world.

### External programs
External editors such as an NBT editor or MCEdit can be used to edit the coordinates of the player.

### MCEdit
Alternately you probably should use MCEdit to get to the far lands, however, you may die a few times before getting it right. Start the Minecraft Launcher and create a new profile in Beta 1.7.3 (check the box that says "Allow use of old Beta versions"). Create a new map, walk around for a few seconds, then save and quit. Open the map in MCEdit and move the player's position to a few hundred meters from the Far Lands (so as to not get hit by the full force of the lag all at once). When doing this, it is a good idea to set the player's spawn point here, so if you die, you will be able to respawn near the Far Lands and not have to go through the whole process again (a similar method can be used in the possible situation where you spawn above or below ground.) The Far Lands' land distortion starts at 12,550,821 (x or z, although if you go for a corner where they meet expect double the lag, due to the mobs) so it is better to go to the X/Z 12,550,400-12,550,600 range. Save and quit, load up the world (in Beta 1.7.3), and as it is a new area it will be empty for a while as it loads up. Once there, it is a good idea to turn your render distance down if you have not done so already, as this will help with the lag. Once there hit F3 and check to see which direction increases the number (which will display something around 1.2550E7 because 12,550,000 is considered too long by the game to display.) You should notice strange physics immediately, however, the wall of distorted terrain is still a 200-400 meter walk away (if you used the provided number range.) Once the edge of your view range hits the start of the distorted terrain you will start to get a large amount of lag. Now, you need to explore the Far Lands as much as you can before the lag makes the game too slow to play because once you convert your map into Beta 1.8 or higher, the only Far Lands terrain you will have to explore is the terrain you generated in 1.7.3. Load your map in a newer version, and now you have the Far Lands terrain to do things to. Just remember that any terrain that you did not explore in Beta 1.7.3 will generate as normal terrain. If you want a lot of the beta 1.7.3 land to generate then once things get too laggy you can keep using MCEdit to teleport yourself 100 blocks further. After changing location with MCEdit and closing the map (Vital! You can corrupt the map having it open in 2 programs at once!) start Minecraft up, load the level, pause while looking at the sky (this lessens the CPU load) and give it a short time to process the changes (waiting until there are no chunk updates left may take too long). View distance doesn't seem to affect newly generated terrain distance (notice the explored area circle around you when using a map doesn't change when view distances change) so keep it turned down even though that seems counter-intuitive. Then save and quit and use MCEdit to move yourself another 100 blocks. Keeping either X or Z at 12,550,820 and lowering the other one by 100 each time will let you tour the edge of the wall. Increasing past 12,550,820 will let you explore the interior of the Far Lands, however, the chance of appearing embedded in solid blocks is higher. You might want to consider visiting all 4 corners and mapping 1 square km around them. One last warning: do not ever change the worldspawn (the default spawn location where you appear at the start and reappear at if you die and your bed is obstructed) to a Far Lands area, either with a map editor or on later versions, cheats. The area in a 10 chunk radius around the worldspawn is always loaded, and so any lag in that area is also always loaded.

