### Ender Pearls
Although endermen don't spawn on Peaceful, ender pearls can be obtained by 3 other means. Ender pearls can be found in the chests of strongholds and woodland mansions. Both of these structures are very rare, but woodland mansions can be found using a woodland explorer map, although the nearest woodland mansion could be very far away. Two ender pearls always generate in the fake end portal room chest, but not every woodland mansion generates a fake end portal room. You can also get ender pearls by giving a cleric villager 5 emeralds. If you have a farmer and a large wheat, beetroot, potato, or carrot farm, you can gain lots of emeralds by trading these items with the farmer, and thus gain lots of ender pearls. You can also get ender pearls by bartering with piglins. Despite the fact that ender pearls can't be used to make eyes of ender because of the lack of blaze rods, ender pearls can be used to teleport, which can be very useful at times.

### Gunpowder
Gunpowder is most easily achieved as a drop from creepers, and is also a drop from ghasts or witches. However, neither of the 3 mobs spawn on Peaceful difficulty, so alternative ways of achieving gunpowder are important.

Gunpowder, can be found in desert temple chests, dungeon chests, woodland mansion chests and shipwreck chests. See the previous section, "Bones," for how to find these structures. Gunpowder can be found in shipwrecks which can generate in any ocean biome, but rarely you can also find one on land.

Gunpowder can also be obtained by trading with a wandering trader for one emerald. 

Gunpowder is not necessary for completing anything major, but it is fun and in many circumstances, helpful to use, as it can be used to create fireworks and TNT. Also, gunpowder can be used to make splash potions. However, no potion can be made on Peaceful, because brewing requires blaze powder as fuel, which is not achievable as blazes don't spawn.

If you want to use the gunpowder to make TNT, you can also acquire TNT in a desert temple trap and a trap in a woodland mansion secret room. Be careful, though; they are called traps for a reason! Also, TNT can be found in shipwreck chests and buried treasure chests. Buried treasure can be located using treasure maps.

### Magma Cream
Magma Cream can either be obtained as a drop from magma cubes, by crafting a slimeball and a blaze powder, or by looting bastion remnant chests. In peaceful, the only way to obtain Magma Cream is by looting bastion remnant chests. However, magma creams are almost practically useless in peaceful mode, as their only use is to craft magma blocks, while those can be commonly found within the nether. It can't be used as a brewing ingredient, as blaze powder and blaze rods are unobtainable.

### Prismarine Crystals
Prismarine crystals can either be achieved as a drop from guardians and elder guardians, by breaking a sea lantern, or by finding buried treasure chests. In Peaceful, the only way is to break a sea lantern or find a treasure chest. Sea lanterns can be found in ocean monuments and underwater ruins. You need ocean explorer maps to find ocean monuments, but underwater ruins are much more common; you can even find several ruins during your trip to an ocean monument, and rarely, ruins may also generate on land (similar to shipwrecks). However, the only use of prismarine crystals is to make a sea lantern, which also requires prismarine shards, which can only be obtained by killing guardians, which don't spawn in Peaceful. The only way to get a sea lantern while on Peaceful difficulty is by using a Silk Touch pickaxe.

### Rotten Flesh
Fortunately, rotten flesh is not very useful – you will be fine if you never acquire it in a Minecraft world. However, if you do have a certain purpose for rotten flesh, such as to feed your wolf, it can be obtained in a few ways without killing any hostile monster. Like bones, rotten flesh can be found in desert temple chests, jungle temple chests, dungeon chests, and woodland mansion chests. Rotten flesh can also be obtained from igloo basement chests, which is useful if you have a snowy tundra or snowy taiga biome near spawn. Unfortunately, not all igloos have basements, so you may have to go through many igloos to find rotten flesh, or try to find a desert, jungle, or a dungeon. Rotten flesh can also be found in Shipwreck supply chests, but again, not every shipwreck generates a supply room (this part is usually broken). Rotten flesh can also be found in village temples, but only the desert village temple has a chest, so it's better to look for desert villages than other villages. Lastly, rotten flesh can also be found in underwater ruins chests. Rotten flesh also has a 1.2% chance of being obtained when fishing. However, like for bones, a fishing rod requires string, which is rather expensive when on Peaceful difficulty. However, most of the places where you can find rotten flesh, you can find string as well. Rotten flesh is also given by a tamed cat as a gift, but only with a 16.13% chance. You can find stray cats in villages, and tame them using any raw fish.

A jungle temple, with the passageway to the hidden chest open. You can see the sticky piston facing a cobblestone block in the middle of the picture.
