### Slimeballs
Slimeballs are usually obtained by killing slimes. However, slimes don't spawn in peaceful difficulty. In Peaceful difficulty, slimeballs are obtainable from trading it with a wandering trader and can be dropped by baby pandas when they sneeze. 

One of the most important crafting products are sticky pistons. Three sticky pistons spawn naturally in jungle temples. However, jungle temples are very rare, so make sure that when you're looting a jungle temple in Peaceful difficulty, grab all 3 sticky pistons. You will find that they are very useful in redstone contraptions. Sticky pistons also generate in ancient cities.

### Spider Eye
Spider eyes are usually obtained by killing spiders or witches. With these mobs unable to spawn, spider eyes are rather difficult to obtain. The only place they can be found is in the chests of desert temples. Although desert temple chests only have a 29% chance of having spider eyes, desert temples have 4 chests in them, so it is likely that one of them will have some number of spider eyes. However, spider eyes are practically useless on Peaceful difficulty, because they can only be used to be eaten or as a potion ingredient, both of which are impossible in Peaceful.

### Sponges
Wet sponges can be obtained as a drop from elder guardians on Easy, Normal, or Hard, or in the sponge room(s) in ocean monuments in all difficulties, including Peaceful. Although wet sponges are technically not renewable, the primary use of sponges is to soak of water, and when they are broken, the water is still drained. Because of this and the fact that wet sponges can be placed in the nether or cooked in a furnace to become a dry sponge all over again, sponges, despite being non-renewable, can be used an infinite number of times.

Ocean monuments can be rather difficult to find, but they are easier than some other structures, like woodland mansions. There are two methods of finding ocean monuments. The cheaper but more time-consuming way is to keep looking around deep ocean biome variants, until you find one. The more expensive but less time-consuming way is to acquire an ocean explorer map from a cartographer villager, and use that to locate an ocean monument. However, in addition to having to gather enough materials to trade with a cartographer villager to get the explorer map, you will have to trade all the villager's other trade options, before the ocean explorer map trade will unlock. In Bedrock Edition, cartographers have a 1⁄3 chance to offer an ocean explorer map.

### String
This is a screenshot of rotten flesh, gunpowder, string, and bones in a desert temple. Desert temples are one of the few places you can find these items on Peaceful difficulty.
String has many uses in Survival mode – it can be used to make a bow, scaffolding, crossbow, fishing rod, lead, loom, candles, wool, or be used in a tripwire circuit. Although having no spiders makes it harder to acquire string, there are still many ways to get some. String can be obtained by breaking cobwebs with a sword. In Bedrock Edition, cobwebs can also be crafted to produce 9 strings, so that would make it better to break cobweb using shears. if you have a mineshaft, stronghold library, zombie village, or woodland mansion with a spawner room near spawn, this would probably be the easiest way to acquire string. String can also be gifted by a cat, and is dropped by them upon death. You can also obtain string from bartering with piglins and killing striders.

Also, string generates as part of tripwire traps in jungle temples, generating a total of 5 string per jungle temple. In addition, like rotten flesh, gunpowder and bones, string can be found in the chests of desert temples, dungeons, woodland mansions, and pillager outposts. Finally, string has a 0.6% chance of being obtained through fishing. The next paragraph shows how to acquire a fishing rod without string:

All of the crafting recipes of string can be obtained in some other way besides getting string. Wool, of course, can be obtained by killing or shearing sheep. Leads are dropped by wandering traders or found in woodland mansions, dungeons, ancient cities, or buried treasure chests. Looms can be found in village shepherd houses. Both unenchanted and enchanted bows can be bought from fletcher villagers for 2 emeralds and 8‌[BE  only] or 17–22‌[JE  only] emeralds respectively, as part of their trades at apprentice and expert-level, while crossbows can be found in pillager outposts or bought enchanted or unenchanted from a fletcher villager for 3 emeralds and 8‌[BE  only] or 7–22‌[JE  only]. A bow by itself isn't extremely useful when in Peaceful, but it can be used to make a dispenser which can be used for many purposes. Also, 2 dispensers naturally generate in every jungle temple. Finally, an enchanted fishing rod can be bought from Fishermen villagers for 6 emeralds, as part of their trades at journeyman level. Enchanted fishing rods can also be found in underwater ruins, which you can find more easily by following dolphin fed by raw cod. The primary use of fishing rods is to fish. Actual fish aren't useful on Peaceful difficulty (other than for trading to fisherman villagers), unless you want to tame a cat or feed dolphins, but fishing has a chance of giving the player an enchanted book, saddle, name tag, lily pad, bone, rotten flesh, string, leather, and more. In addition, fishing can even give you an enchanted bow, or another fishing rod.

