### The Nether
The Nether is the most dangerous part of this challenge and this is where nearly everybody dies and loses their world. If you want to continue, you will need to go to the Nether to make progress. Read the Nether survival guide first. As usual, you can't take damage, so you need to be extremely cautious and alert due to the dangers of the Nether.

- Lava will one-hit you if you fall into it. To counteract that, find some piglins and barter with them until they give you a fire resistance potion, which you can drink to save yourself if you are about to fall in it. Alternatively, you can use an ender pearl, but only do that if you have at least enchanted diamond armor.
- Walking into fire will kill you, even with Protection 4 diamond armor, so look where you're going.
- Take at least 3 bottles/splash bottles of fire resistance, and a cauldron with a few water buckets to extinguish yourself if you are on fire.
- Choose to wear either a gold helmet or boots, so that piglins won't be hostile to you. Try to enchant that armor piece with Protection 4, Unbreaking 3 and Mending.
- Bring at least two buckets of powder snow and some leather boots with it as well (also enchant the leather boots with Protection 4, Unbreaking 3 and Mending). Keep them in your hotbar and never remove it. Learn how to MLG with it, as it will save your life. Make sure to not use it to extinguish yourself if you are on fire, instead use cauldrons and water or fire resistance. You can also use the buckets of powder snow to get to the top of steep cliffs, fortresses or bastions.
- Never attack pigmen, as they can swarm you and kill you easily.
- Never dig down, because lots of floors are only one or two blocks thick, with lava underneath.
- Surround your portal with cobblestone to stop ghasts from destroying it. If a ghast is shooting you then make sure to deflect the fireball back at it with any sword ( it does not make a difference ) and then shoot it down with a Power 5 bow, if it is still alive.
- On your first visit your priority is to find a nether fortress. Readthe nether fortress survival guideon how to defeat a nether fortress. Your highest priority is to get as much nether wart and soul sand as you can and at least 10 blaze rods (Looting 3 will help you get more). When you are fighting blazes from a spawner, make sure to have fire resistance on you at all times, and do not go near the blazes or they will punch you and you will probably die. You can bring ingredients from the overworld to brew more after you have your first 2 blaze rods, although you will need magma cream.
	- Alternatively, if you are short of fire resistance or are paranoid of dying, you can build a blaze spawn trap or a farm.
	- Make sure to block offwither skeletonswith two-block high walls and light up the corridors with torches to stop mobs from spawning.
- Only explore bastion remnants if you have all the armor, tools and equipment needed and you are confident. Kill brutes by pouring lava on them. If you are in a treasure bastion make sure to break the magma cube spawners as soon as possible and kill the magma cubes with a bow or ranged weapon. Use hoppers to loot chests, since piglins won't be hostile to you if you do that, however they will if you open chests. If you want to mine a gold block(s) make sure to block yourself in fully, cover any gaps in the floor, walls and roof, and then mine it and wait for up to 2 minutes to make sure all piglins are calm again.
	- If you are on Java Edition, you can use subtitles to detect when piglins are passive or aggressive.
- Mine for netherite using pickaxes, beds or TNT until you get a full set of netherite armor and tools (beds is recommended). You can buy beds from shepherds, but make sure you have the fire resistance effect applied to you at all times if you are using them. Mine at y13 to avoid lava seas flowing onto you, and mine along a chunk border to get the most netherite.
	- The best method using beds is to place the bed, place 2 cobblestone blocks in between you and the bed, then push yourself against the closest cobblestone block to you and then place a cobblestone block under your feet. Then, tap the bed and quickly punch any fire that has a very low chance to form under you (because of the 3 cobblestone blocks). The explosion would normally do exactly half a heart of damage, but if you wear full Protection 4 diamond armor you will be fine.

### The End
- Make sure your armor, sword and tools are all netherite and maxed out enchanted, and you have a bow with Infinity, Unbreaking 3, flame ( for shulkers) and Power 5. Armor needs Protection 4, Unbreaking 3, Mending and optionally Thorns 3, plus Feather Falling 4 for the boots, the sword will need Sharpness 5 and Mending and the pickaxe will need Efficiency 5, Mending and Silk Touch (for ender chest usage).
- Also make sure you wear a carved pumpkin to stop endermen from attacking you if you look at them. You can use a texture pack to get rid of the part that blocks your vision.
- Bring at least six potions of Strength 2 and six extended slow falling potions. You have a chance to get a phantom membrane when you wake up in the morning if a cat curls up and sleeps on a bed with you. Night vision can help you see the dragon in the dark, and speed and gapples will come useful in the fight too!
	- Optionally, you can bring a trident enchanted with Riptide 3 and Mending, if you have enough slow falling potions or water bucket MLG experience. This will allow you to zoom through the air and will really help in accessing the caged crystals.
- Also bring 2 buckets of water (to make an infinite water source) and at least 2 buckets of powder snow to tower up to the top of caged crystals.
- Bring some ender pearls but only use them if you are knocked into the void. Slow falling will give you more time to throw them.
- Do your best to bring as many totems of undying as you can to a fight. It might save your life.
- Make sure to utilise ender chest storage as much as you can. It will really help you carry all the potions!
- Bring anenchanted golden apple or two if things go south during the fight.
- Bring a single arrow for the Infinity bow and use it to destroy most crystals and also shoot the dragon in the air. For caged crystals the best way to destroy them is to get close and shoot through the gaps‌[JE  only], but if you have bad aim or play on Bedrock Edition, you can ignite a piece of TNT on the top of the iron bars and use a Riptide trident or a water bucket to swim down before the TNT explodes the end crystal.


