## Beginning
Half hearted hardcore can take people weeks of creating and trying worlds to get to the credit titles, and very few people have actually beaten it, but if you really want to prove yourself as a Minecraft master, here is the recommended way on how to do it.

### The Overworld
When you start, gather only 3 logs. Make a crafting table and a wooden pickaxe, and mine 3 stone from a nearby hill or underground. Craft a stone pickaxe and use that pickaxe to gather 23 stone, which is enough for the rest of the stone tools set and also 2 furnaces. Now gather about 20 logs using the stone axe and turn a furnace into a smoker. Then you will need to try to find some surface coal and iron and mine any you see, and also kill every mob you come across. Remember not to explore any caves. If you see any grass then you need to mine it and get as many wheat seeds as you can, gather any sugarcane you see, and also pick up any dandelions and destroy any huge mushrooms using the axe. This will be useful for saturation suspicious stew. Once you get enough coal and iron, cook the food, smelt the iron and try to make a stack of torches. Then make a bucket and fill it up with water, and make a shield, flint and steel and shears, and keep the shield in your offhand. You can now kill animals with fire (be VERY CAREFUL not to burn yourself as you will immediately die if you do get caught on fire) and continue gather resources until the sun sets, but make sure to shear sheep so that you have at least 3 wool to make a bed when dusk strikes. You HAVE TO have a bed, so prioritise finding sheep to shear. As soon as the sun begins to set place the bed and immediately start spamclicking/tapping on the bed until it lets you sleep, because that is for safety. Congratulations, you survived your first day!

When you wake up, you can start building a house out of any easily obtainable material. It is not recommended that you make it look pretty because you might get attached to it, and you will probably lose it at some point. Also, safety is a priority, so make sure you light up the house and make sure it is 100% mob-proof and sealed with an iron door. It is recommended you build a wall around the house and light up the area inside and around the wall to keep the mobs out. You will also need to set up a crop and animal farm (if you have mushrooms, then a manual mushroom farm as well), so hunger will cease to be a threat. And make sure to skip the nights, and try not to gather wood from forests (because mobs can spawn in the day), but from the surrounding areas instead. After you're done, you should have an outdoor crop farm, sugarcane farm, animal farm, manual sheep farm, chest room, smelting room, optionally bedroom, and some spare rooms you will need to use later, preferably for brewing or nether wart farming.

After you finish your house, you need to go mining. It is pretty obvious that you can barely go caving in this world, so instead buy Fortune 3 from a librarian villager and anvil that to a pickaxe. If you don't have an anvil, you can mine until you have enough iron and then add Fortune 3 to the pickaxe. The natural cost of Fortune 3 is in between 11 and 45 emeralds, so try to get it for as cheap as possible. Now, strip mine with unenchanted pickaxes, and block off and go in a different direction if you hit any caves. Remember, better be safe than sorry. Only use the Fortune 3 if you find an ore that can be fortuned, like coal ore, copper ore, iron ore,  redstone ore,  gold ore,  lapis lazuli ore. If you are lucky enough and you find  diamond ore, mine that as well. If you find a lava lake, immediately pour water over it and optionally pick up a bucket of lava for lava, and then obsidian farming later. If you find dripstone, mine it and all of the dripstone blocks for dripstone farming, but be careful not to jump on it otherwise you will take exactly half a heart of damage and die. After you run out of torches or unenchanted pickaxes, or are simply just satisfied with the amount of ores you have obtained, go back up to your base of operations and use multiple furnaces/blast furnaces to smelt the iron and gold mined. Then, hopefully you will have enough iron for a full set of iron armor, or maybe even enough diamonds for a full set of diamond armor! A full set of diamond armor is recommended, but you can also buy it from master level armorers. Also make a sword and then a pickaxe, and use that to mine obsidian and make an enchanting table. Once you have enough sugarcane, leather and wood, you can surround it with 15 bookshelves to get level 30 enchants (or you can buy them from librarians), and enchant your gear and a bow with maxed out enchants. You will need a lot of XP, which you can get from trading with villagers, or by building a mob grinder. While you are trading with villagers, try to buy enough ender pearls from a cleric to be able to beat the game with (16 should be more than enough), since gold is more useful for the absorption hearts from gapples and for golden carrots and potion ingredients. You can also try to level up a farmer to sell you apples and golden carrots/glistering melons, a shepherd to sell you beds which you can use to mine for ancient debris, an armorer/toolsmith to sell you diamond armor/tools if you don't have enough diamonds, a butcher to sell you cooked meat, and a librarian to buy enchanted books/bookshelves, glass and also name tags if you don't want to fish. If you choose to fish, you can also level up a fishermen to sell fish to get emeralds. It is recommended that you transport 2 villagers to your base of operations and then breed them to get the desired amount of villagers, and then make a trading hall, and if wanted an iron farm to not worry about iron again.

Then get more dandelions, both types of mushrooms, and a bowl to make suspicious stew for saturation. Once you have enough resources, make a few golden apples, keep them in your hotbar, and never remove it. It will save your life at some point. Then you can enchant armor and tools with the best enchants possible.

After you're done enchanting, you should either gather more resources and work on the base, or go to the Nether.

