### Increase in popularity
A typical Herobrine "sighting".
Following these events, the popularity of the character began to increase, propelling Herobrine to meme status and making him an icon of the community. Numerous screenshots, animations, pieces of artwork, constructions, and videos of Herobrine were created, with the earliest among them being created on the same day as the original livestreams.[14]

Not long after the Brocraft streams propelled Herobrine into popularity, all of the Brocraft streams in which he was featured were deleted, and not archived elsewhere. Despite extensive searching, no footage has ever been recovered, and only a few screenshots and written descriptions of the contents of the livestreams still exist. Copeland continued to adamantly state Herobrine was real for about a year onward.

At MINECON 2010, the day after Herobrine's popularity boost from the livestreams, Notch confirmed Herobrine was a hoax, but jokingly alluded to the possibility that he might not be.[15] The next day, Notch posted on Twitter about the subject of Herobrine: in reply to a tweet asking if Herobrine was a real entity in-game, Notch replied saying that he was not, but that he "might be soon".[16] This further confirmed there was no Herobrine, but again suggested the possibility that Notch planned to add him at a later date.

In October 2010, due to increased drama surrounding the Minecraft Wiki's page on Herobrine, a wiki administrator asked Notch over IRC if he would ever be added, to which Notch replied "i [sic] have no plans of adding herobrine as is, but I do like the rumors, haha".[citation needed] This showed Notch had decided against adding Herobrine, but the use of the wording "as is" suggested that something like Herobrine may be added, further fueling beliefs that he would be implemented. Once again, the same user asked for clarification, saying that the Minecraft community was "getting frustrated by the hero-spam", to which Notch replied that he had no plans for adding Herobrine into the game.[17]

Based on Herobrine's popularity, from 2013 to 2017, author Mark Cheverton wrote the Gameknight999 series of 24 novels in 6 trilogies, featuring Herobrine as the primary antagonist. The series is unofficially based on Minecraft. The second novel of the series became a bestseller listed in Publisher's Weekly[18] and The New York Times.[19]

### Modded versions
An altar used to summon Herobrine in several mods, including the earliest known plugin.
On December 10, 2010, hMod Forums user tkelly released the earliest known Herobrine mod, a server plugin called "iLoveYou".[20][21] In the plugin, Herobrine can be summoned by building an altar made of gold blocks, netherrack, redstone torches and mossy cobblestone, and igniting the netherrack on top.[22] The mod's version of Herobrine exhibits behaviors similar to those in the original creepypasta and livestreams, as well as new behaviors, such as placing redstone torches,[23] building underground dungeons,[24] teleporting behind players,[25] and luring players into traps.[26] Many YouTube videos from around the time of this plugin's release show players encountering or summoning this modded version of Herobrine on many different servers,[27][28] indicating that the plugin was widespread enough to influence the playerbase's perception of Herobrine, and many of Herobrine's traits and abilities introduced in the mod became established in the community as part of the character. Updated versions of this plugin created by other users still exist on the Internet,[29][30] but the original plugin from the original creator is currently lost.

Later, on July 29, 2011, a more popular Herobrine mod was released by the Minecraft Forum user burnner.[31] This mod also lets players summon Herobrine by building and igniting an altar made of gold and netherrack, though the arrangement and composition of blocks is different, and a new "Herobrine Totem" block is required. This mod's version of Herobrine retains many of his abilities from the canon sources and original mod while gaining many new ones, such as using tools, placing signs, possessing animals, and spawning undead mobs. Herobrine is much more hostile in this mod and regularly attacks players directly, unlike in the original mod where Herobrine is rarely encountered and less overtly hostile. Many subsequent Herobrine mods have been made since, many of them employing numerous concepts that originated in these early examples. Such mods are the only way Herobrine can actually exist in the game.

### Current status
From 2011 onward, Herobrine's popularity continued to increase as more and more fan creations featuring the character were created. Many "sightings", modded gameplay videos, and animations featuring Herobrine would reach tens of millions of views on YouTube during the following years.[32][33] Numerous imitation characters with varying levels of popularity were created with Herobrine as the main inspiration, but Herobrine would always remain by far the most popular.

As the role of lead developer of Minecraft was passed on from Notch to Jeb, the chance of Herobrine appearing in an update became unclear. On August 22, 2012, Dinnerbone, current joint developer of Minecraft, tweeted "We have no plans at all to add herobrine. I doubt this will ever change."[34] This confirms that Herobrine is unlikely ever to appear in Minecraft, and that any claims of "finding" Herobrine in vanilla Minecraft in future updates are completely unfounded.

## Description
### Canonical
Another early Herobrine image.
Herobrine is said to be Notch's deceased brother, somehow embedded into Minecraft as a human entity with the player skin of Steve, but with completely white eyes and no visible irises or pupils. His appearance differs between the canonical sources; in Copeland's livestream, he had the beard seen in Steve's original design, while in the original 4chan image and Copeland's edited screenshot, the beard appears to be absent.

Herobrine is able to build and destroy in the game. The original story states the player found long 2×2 tunnels, small pyramids in the middle of the ocean, and trees with no leaves. The full extent of his building capacity is unknown, but the given examples indicate Herobrine has awareness of shape, and can differentiate materials from each other. Herobrine shows a lot of characteristics of being a form of virus, such as manipulating game worlds, deleting Minecraft Forum topics and sending messages to forum users. He is not seen to communicate with players in-game, but does have the ability to communicate through the internet.

Herobrine seems to solely target players. He did not seem to interact with any other mobs nearby in the Brocraft streams, some of which were spiders and zombies. His canonical relation to further mobs added since he appeared is a complete mystery. His interactions with other mobs are not mentioned in the original image. While there is a chicken present in the image, Herobrine does not seem interested in it at all, and is solely focused on the player.

In both the original creepypasta and the Brocraft streams, Herobrine appears in the world without any apparent cause, and his presence is not implied to be due to a player's actions. In the creepypasta, he seems to avoid the player and appears to only be active in unexplored areas, whereas in the streams he seems to intentionally get close to players and appears mainly near player constructions.

