### Community
A totem used to summon Herobrine in burnner's Herobrine mod, and several other mods.
The pronounciation of the name "Herobrine" is not specified in any of the canonical sources, leaving it as a subject of debate. Most pronounce the "Hero" part of the name as either /hɪɹəʊ/ (as in the word "hero") or /hɛɹoʊ/ ("Heh-roh"), while the "-brine" part is commonly pronounced as /bɹaɪn/ (as in the word "brine"), /bɹɪn/ ("brin"), or /bɹiːn/ ("breen").[citation needed]

Though his hands are usually empty, Herobrine is sometimes depicted holding tools, such as pickaxes.[35] This stems from the widespread community belief that Herobrine is a dead miner, killed long before the player's arrival.[citation needed] His appearance does not suggest this is the case, though with Minecraft's mineshafts and strongholds, as well as mining being a large part of the game, the game itself has shaped public perception of the character to suit this persona. While he usually doesn't seem to have any home besides the underground tunnels and dungeons he builds, he sometimes has a large base of operations, such as a castle[36] or mansion.[37]

Herobrine occasionally interacts with other mobs. He is sometimes able to take control of passive animals, causing them to also exhibit his blank white eyes,[11] and revive/spawn undead mobs.[38] He seems capable of drastically changing his environments with no viable source of resources to do so. Most expansions to his abilities involve cobblestone placing,[39] dungeon building,[24] using redstone torches[23] and setting traps.[40] He exhibits all the behaviors of a Creative mode player in the game. While he is usually mute, some interpretations have him communicating with players, typically by sending them ominous messages through signs[41] or chat[42] such as "Stop"[43] or "Only God can save/help you now",[44] or by screaming as he jumpscares them.[45] While he usually cannot be killed, in some interpretations he can be defeated, at least temporarily.[33]

Herobrine's intentions vary, but they usually fall under two categories: the "stalker" variation, based on the original canonical events, and the "vengeful" variation, derived from community interpretation. In the "stalker" variation, he stalks the player, disappearing if approached. In the "vengeful" variation, he tries to ensnare the player in traps, presumably to steal their items. He waits for people to enter his dungeons, then either seals them inside,[46] or teleports behind them,[25] presumably killing them. Some rarer variations of the latter state he breaks the player's creations[47] and steals their items from chests.[48]

A popular idea in the community is that Herobrine can be "summoned" through the use of a special arrangement of blocks; such a structure is usually referred to as a "Herobrine altar", "Herobrine shrine", "Herobrine totem" or "Herobrine spawner". Typically, this is a 3×3 horizontal square of gold blocks, with a block of netherrack placed on top and four redstone torches placed upright on each side.[22] The block beneath the netherrack varies between versions, with common choices being mossy cobblestone,[27] soul sand,[49] more netherrack[50] or more gold.[51] Another common design is a 1 block wide, 4 block tall pillar with 2 gold blocks on the bottom and 2 netherrack blocks on the top.[52] Some variations also include other blocks such as redstone dust[53] or lava.[54] Igniting the netherrack is supposed to "activate" the structure, which then supposedly summons Herobrine into the world.[28]

## Official cameos
Herobrine has appeared or been mentioned in official Mojang images and webpages as an inside joke. His first appearance in official Mojang images was with the Wedding Weekend in August 2011, in which he was just behind Notch's Minecraft character. He then made several appearances in material related to MINECON 2011: firstly the website header, where he was just behind Notch yet again.[55] He then appeared in the official MINECON 2011 trailer created by Hat Films, at 3:11, after players were asked to submit skins to appear in the trailer.[56] In the convention itself, a Herobrine statue was present in the Xbox section, on the board behind the Xbox stations. During the closing of the convention, a user named Zaralith won the Herobrine statue by correctly answering the give-away question "How many Fable games are there?". Some users have pointed to this as proof of his future addition, however there is no proof he has been portrayed for anything other than baiting fans.

Herobrine then appeared in the instruction booklets of some of the first LEGO Minecraft sets, among other Minecraft characters. He also appeared in Minecraft's Facebook page on the cover photo in summer 2012,[57] although the image was created by a fan for a competition with the theme of "summer picnic", hence his inclusion may not be fully intentional.[58]

In September 2013, developer Marc Watson created a series of skins for the head model. These skins were made to ensure a stable skin for various official entities could be used without fear that the skin could change. Herobrine is one of the skins that can be obtained through this system by using the command /give @s player_head{SkullOwner:MHF_Herobrine} (with "MHF" standing for "Marc's Head Format"). The skin used to show Herobrine without a beard and was originally taken from the Herobrine account. It was changed in December 2017 to use the same beard that Steve and the mob had before the release of Survival Test.[59]

- Herobrine in the Wedding Weekend promo image.
- Herobrine in the MINECON 2011 header.
- The Herobrine statue on the MINECON 2011 Xbox 360 stand.
- The Herobrine statue from MINECON 2011, now owned by Zaralith.
- Herobrine in the LEGO Minecraft Micro World: The Forest booklet.
- Herobrine in the LEGO Minecraft Micro World: The Village booklet.
- Herobrine in Mojang Studios' "summer picnic" Facebook cover photo.
- MHF_Herobrine, without the beard.

In the Java Edition 3D Shareware v1.34 April Fools' update, "Removing Herobrine" is one of the episodes. On the Minecraft Earth FAQ site, Herobrine used to be mentioned in one of the frequently asked questions about the game; the question was "Is Herobrine in this game too?" and the answer given was "<REDACTED>".[60] This was later removed from the FAQ page. In the Official Minecraft Discord, there is a sticker called "Him", which references the image in the "Him" website linked to Brocraft viewers after the Herobrine stream.

