#### Guess which one
A somewhat more unorthodox method for hiding chests is to construct a large storage room or warehouse filled with hundreds, thousands or even hundreds of thousands of chests (empty or filled with junk, the more chests the better) and then hide the valuable chest somewhere among them, in a more discreet location. Chests can be placed next to Trapped Chests without needing a block between them and both types can be placed on top of one another. While this is not guaranteed to protect the chest from looters it can definitely delay them for a good while, as every additional chest added increases the amount of time it takes to search through them all and every passing minute increases the odds of the looter getting caught red-handed by the chest owner. Few players are willing to risk that by spending more than a few minutes rummaging through all the chests. And if anyone, despite that, IS crazy enough to actually start looking through all the chests, even if it takes them the whole day, the trap can be further augmented by mixing in some trapped chests (linked to redstone and/or traps) among the real chests, forcing the thief to waste even more time trying to tell the two types of chests apart from one another to avoid a nasty surprise.
Finally, if you really want to ruin the thief's day, hide the valuable chest somewhere completely elsewhere; once the looter finishes rummaging through all the tens of thousands of chests (trapped or not), they must face the cruel reality that all their efforts were wasted for nothing as the valuable chest was nowhere to be found within the ridiculously huge chest heap.

WARNING! If you decide to hide your valuables within the chest heap, make sure you know where you place them as forgetting which chest holds the valuables means you have a really huge job in front of you to find the valuables again. Do not mark the valuable chest or make it look different from the others in any way as that renders the whole contraption pointless; this whole concept relies on hiding the valuable chest among countless identical ones.

### Other tips to hiding chests
- One way to trick players into not getting your loot is to have a room that seems like it would have all your valuables in it, but instead contains junk. Hide your loot somewhere else entirely, where players would never dream that you would hide it.
- When usingredstonein hiding chests to make a deadly trap,lavais a great option. Lava does not destroy chests, but at many times it is deadly to the player. However, make sure your chest room isn't made ofwood, or the whole room can burn down!
- If theft (and/or possibly griefing) is so commonplace that all above solutions fail to reliably protect your valuables (either due to server rules or poor administration) regardless of circumstances, a final solution might be to spread out your valuable items across several different locations instead of storing everything in one place. This allows you to minimize property losses incurred by theft or looting as if any one of the stashes is raided, it should hopefully contain so few valuables that the resulting losses are manageable.
- If you trick the thief with the first trick, you find out that the griefers are suspicious, and in some cases, may try to find the real storage. You should put 1 diamond and some iron ingots in the junk chest, so the griefers don't get suspicious.


