# Tutorials/Honey farming
Honey farming is the process of collecting honey bottles and honeycombs from beehives and bee nests. To get honeycombs, you can use shears when the beehive or bee nest has reached honey_level 5. Honeycomb is used for crafting your own beehives or bee nests for bees to inhabit, as well as for crafting decorative honeycomb blocks, candles, and waxing copper blocks.  To get honey bottles, you can use an empty bottle on a hive or nest at honey level 5. Honey bottles are food items that are able to cure Poison, and can also be used to craft sugar and honey blocks, the latter of which have sticky properties that give them a variety of useful applications. 

Honey is generated by bees after they collect pollen and nectar. Bees emerge from their home and go looking for flowers. After collecting pollen and nectar from the flowers, the bees return home and go inside to turn the nectar into honey. Once finished, the bees emerge again to look for more flowers. The honey collects over time until the bee nest or beehive is full, and can then be harvested by the player in various forms.

## Contents
- 1 Getting started
	- 1.1 Obtaining bees
	- 1.2 Helping bees work
	- 1.3 Harvesting
	- 1.4 Avoiding bee anger
	- 1.5 Protecting your bees
- 2 Products
	- 2.1 Honey bottles
	- 2.2 Honeycombs
- 3 Automatic harvesting
	- 3.1 Honeycombs
	- 3.2 Honey bottles
	- 3.3 Videos
- 4 References

## Getting started
### Obtaining bees
Bee nests can be found naturally generated in some biomes such as the flower forest. As shown here, it is important to place a campfire beneath before harvesting from it to avoid angering the bees nearby. Angry bees attack you, lose their stingers, and die shortly after.
The first step on your foray into apiculture is to find bees in your world. Your initial source of bees is a naturally generated or spawned bee nest. Bee nests have a small chance to generate on oak or birch trees in specific biomes during world generation. After world generation, there is also a chance for a bee nest to spawn on an oak or birch tree when that tree grows near flowers (see post-generation).  

Bee nests and beehives both slowly fill up with honey over time as the bees do their work collecting pollen from flowers.  If you find a natural bee nest and it is conveniently located, you can leave it as is and return to collect the honey when you want.  Keep in mind that breaking a bee nest without Silk Touch breaks it without dropping anything and causes all the bees from that nest to swarm the player regardless of whether or not a campfire was placed underneath it.  Aside from hazard to the player, this is disastrous because the bees die from stinging you, and this can wipe out a hive.  

If you want the bees at another location, you have a few options for getting them there. First, you need a beehive at the new location. (Beehives are constructed using honeycomb. To get your first honeycomb, you need to find a bee nest that has reached honey level 5 and then use shears on it. See Avoiding bee anger below.)  You can then bring bees to your hive from the nest.  You can also just move a whole nest if you want, see below.

Bees can be lured (and bred) using any type of flower (including 2-block flowers and wither roses), and can also be moved using leads. If you feed the bees the flowers, they enter love mode and breed, producing a baby bee. However, if the bee nest is situated at a large distance from where you wish to do your beekeeping, a convenient way to transport bees is to break an occupied bee nest with a tool with Silk Touch and bring the nest with you. Bees that are occupying the nest when it is broken with a tool with Silk Touch remain inside the nest as an item and are not angered. Bees return to their nests at night or when it is raining; these are optimal times to break the nest.  

If you don't have a tool with Silk Touch or don't want to remove the bee nest from its natural location, another option is to stay with the bees as they work until they have filled their nest with honey. Then, place a campfire at least two blocks directly below the hive, and put carpet on top of the campfire ‌[Java Edition  only]. The campfire keeps the bees from getting angry with you, and the carpet keeps you from cooking the bees alive.

When this is in place, use shears on the hive to extract three honeycombs (they'll fly out in a random direction). The honeycomb can be used to craft a beehive that you can place anywhere you like. 

A beehive is functionally identical to a bee nest, but it is not destroyed if broken with a tool without Silk Touch (though this still causes the bees inside to exit the hive and swarm). Also, if you don't want to completely remove the original bee population, consider breeding your own group of bees from the original group to take home with you. You can lure them to follow you by holding flowers.

See also: Beehive

As of Java Edition 1.15.2, occupied bee nests additionally have a 5% chance to spawn on oak or birch trees in any biome that were grown from saplings within two blocks of any flower at the same y-level. With a bit of luck and a large enough supply of oak or birch saplings and bone meal, one can obtain bees relatively easily without having to travel, by repeatedly growing trees near flowers until one spawns a bee nest as it grows. This is also an ideal way to obtain bees in older worlds created prior to Java Edition 1.15, as it saves players from having to locate anything.

Flowers can be harvested from the landscape, and/or produced by using bone meal on grass blocks. An iron farm also provides an endless supply of poppies as a byproduct.


