### Tunnel-mining
This involves digging a long tunnel. The player will need a lot of planks (for sticks), and optimally, crafting tables, chests, and furnaces. The simplest tunnel is 2 high by 1 wide (1 high by 1 wide using suffocation prevention with trapdoors‌[Java Edition  only]), but the wider and higher the tunnel, the more cobblestone they get per chunk, the more they have explored (they will not gather cobblestone any faster, also they will get less ores). Dig at about level 50 if under land; 40 if underwater; or 11 if for precious ores such as diamonds. The player may want to use the cobblestone to seal off caves already explored. This is like a quarry — but more useful since less resources are spent going through the dirt/sand layer, and it can also be used in conjunction with minecart tracks to go from one base to another. A 4×3 tunnel that is 1800 blocks long will yield as much as an 18×18 quarry to bedrock, though arguably safer as they won't hit the lava layer, and it will yield more diamond/redstone if at layer 12, as well as the fact that falling in is completely non-lethal.



A 2×1 shaft is probably the highest-yielding way of mining for ores that is. Mathematically, a 2×1 shaft reveals 8 blocks for every 2 blocks mined forward, so the basic premise of this system is that digging little 10-block deep side shafts off of their main tunnel, as in branch mining, does not yield any more ores than digging straight as their yield will be highest if they simply keep moving forward and mine endlessly instead of stopping a 2×1 shaft will also lead them into plenty of caves, which could be good or bad depending on how they have feel about those. A good strategy for cave run-ins is to make a quick run-down and nab any visible ores, then find their shaft and keep moving. If they don't want to walk all the way back home after digging this, just dig in a "U" shape until a little less than half of their pick is used up, move 8 blocks to the side, and go back. The 2 biggest problems with this kind of mining are: A. It takes a lot of torches, though their coal yield is way higher than the amount they have spend on torches, and B. They have covered a lot of distance, therefore their chances of having lava run-ins are pretty high.

A variation on this kind of tunnel-mining is to drill a finger tunnel into the stone for 20 blocks, placing torches as they go; retrieve any ore found; then recover the torches as players exit, plunging the tunnel back into darkness; then block up the entrance to the finger tunnel with just two blocks of surplus cobble. By leaving the finger tunnel unlit, and unfilled in, it's true that monsters may spawn later, but they are trapped in the walled-off tunnel. Be careful not to mine back into the same area later and also, there is a low chance that monstrous noise might become disconcerting later.

### Multi-mining
The name fits any combined mine such as the following:

#### Quarry-Branch Mine
This involves digging a quarry and adding ledges every few blocks down around the outside while digging. The sides of the quarry have to be a certain length, for example with a two-space branch mine, the player need each side to be 3n+1 blocks long. The result will vaguely resemble a shopping mall atrium with one massive open space and then a bunch of "shelves". Then, dig the shafts to at least 20 blocks for a ton of ores, including quite a few diamonds (about 3 blobs) down on the lower levels. For a 10×10 quarry, they will get about 150 stacks of cobblestone, while for larger mines (e.g., 40×40), they will get around 2000 stacks, handy for massive building projects.

#### Quarry-Cave Mining
Dig a quarry down to under Y-level 25, and attempt to unearth a cave. If they did, they can explore that cave. Many of the deeper caves have no surface entrance, and being able to expose a cave that is otherwise sealed to the outside world through a quarry can garner them both large amounts of cobblestone, dirt, and gravel, as well as the rewards of mining out a deep cave. If they don't want to hold on to the stone that is excavated, they can use it to fill in dead ends, allowing them to navigate the remainder of the cave more easily.

### Quarry-Drop Shaft Mining
This involves basic quarry technique but in small squares. First, the player decide how large they want the mine to be. For example, a make a 3 by 3 hole then go over 1 block and repeat for a 2 by 2 square quarry. Also this allows for maximum ore exposure. But they would need at least a 3 by 3 squares, going all the way to the bedrock layer.

Warning: This can be very dangerous, as they can run into hidden caves, dungeons, lava pools, and mineshafts.

### Mass Mining
For those who favor mining in a straight path but try to not make it very long. Once they have reach the bedrock level, go up a few blocks and start mining and make it a large corridor. If the player reaches a cave, continue to make the large corridor and secure the cave. This will give the player large stores of cobblestone and more of a chance of finding lava. Find ores that are nearby that would be hidden if the player did another technique and did not get lost in their mine. This a very basic technique yet a tiring way of mining. It is suggested to use a diamond pickaxe with max efficiency enchantment and unbreaking enchantment so that the pickaxe doesn't break during the process and also consumes less time compared to using a non-enchanted stone pickaxe.

