### Caves under sand
If players are mining in an area with sand or gravel, like a desert biome, they can break the sand or gravel blocks and see if any others fall. If any does fall, they know there is something beneath. This can be rather dangerous if blocks fall beneath players, but they can place ladders or dig their way out. If done during the day, hostile mobs will mostly burn or go neutral in the sun, but as always, watch out for creepers. Also, the fallen sand or gravel can cover ores. Another event is that it is possible that there is lava under the sand. This is most common under mountains. There could also be a dungeon under the sand, so be prepared to fight or retreat.

### Cave mining checklist
1. Apickaxe. If it is the first mining trip, use a wooden pickaxe to mine somecobblestoneand make a stonepickaxe. If they are further along in the game, and expect to mine for a while, bring two iron pickaxes and at least 12 stone pickaxes. If players have found diamonds, they can also use a diamond pickaxe. Once the player have reached diamonds, if they have an efficient style of mine at a depth where diamonds are found, they can use adiamond pickaxe, which lasts a long time and is capable of miningobsidian. Even a partial blob usually provides enough diamonds to replace the pickaxe when it does break, or repair it when it's about to. If they prefer to save valuable materials, take a few stone pickaxes for mining stone and one iron pickaxe only for mining ores.
2. Ashovel. Having at least oneiron shovelcan get through cumbersome patches ofdirtandgravelquickly without using hands. Just one or twostone shovelsalso works if players want to use the iron for other things. Later, a diamond shovel is a nice convenience.
3. Torches. Light is the key to survival. At least a full stack is recommended, and the more the player can carry, the better. Lighting the area around can help players know which areas they have explored and not get lost, keepmonsterspawns down to a minimum, and find hidden ores in the shadows. Torches can also be used to disablemonster spawners, allowing them to convert them into drop farms later on. Torches can also quickly be placed after mining the lowest block of gravel/sand to break quickly.
4. Logs. If the player run out of tools or torches, the player can make acrafting tableandsticksto replenish the supplies of pickaxes, shovels, and torches (players can get more coal for them from mining). The player can take the crafting table with them when they are done, or leave it and turn it into the core of a mini-base. As for torches, if players run out of coal as well, they can burn logs to make charcoal as a substitute.
5. Awater bucket. This is useful in saving player's life and their items, should players run afoul of lava. Also, if players come across a lava lake or pool they want to cross, they can flood it to turn the lava into obsidian. Water can also be placed to create a waterfall, to descend any shafts or ravines the player come across. More experienced players may also substitute a water bucket for ladders.
6. (optional) Anempty bucket. A spare bucket is useful for collecting lava to use as fuel in a furnace, to block or slaughter monsters (the player will lose most of their drops), or just to get the lava out of the way. The player can also use it to pick up more water from a spring, perhaps after placing a waterfall. A second bucket of water also lets players to create a perpetual water pool, from which they can then refill either or both buckets whenever players want. The easiest way to make an infinite water source is to make a 2×2 pit one level deep, then empty two water buckets into opposite corners. This lets the player refill the bucket from any of the pool blocks.
7. Food. Prolonged visits in mines wears away the player'shungerbar. Bringing food allows the player to spend more time in the cave system, and keeping the hunger bar full is important for healing. If there are mushrooms present, they might carry or make abowlto makemushroom stew.
8. Weapons: Asword(stone or better), abow, and plenty ofarrows(except if their bow has theInfinityenchantment, in that case bring only one arrow.) These help players defend self against monsters. Upgrade to a diamond sword as soon as players can, as it makes fights noticeably shorter. Anaxeis also good onJava Edition, as it deals more damage per hit than swords, although attacking slower.
9. Armor. It protects players from the monsters they may encounter, and even from lava. In general, players want at least iron armor — if necessary, players can smelt ore and craft their armor in the caves.
10. Cheap building blocks such asdirtandcobblestone. Players will certainly be picking some of these up along the way, but starting off with some cheap blocks lets players plug holes, make quick staircases, block off water and lava, and bridge their way across pits and ravines. They can also be used to elevate the player quickly by pillar jumping, block pathways to stop hostile mobs from approaching, cut line-of-sight to prevent monsters from noticing or attacking, or shield the player from explosions. Bring at least a stack of these while caving, as they can be useful under various circumstances.
11. (optional) Gravity-affected blocks such assandandgravel. They allow the player to get off from high places by dropping them in a column and digging down block by block. The player can also suffocate enemies by dropping these blocks on their heads, if they are at an advantage point above. Sand, being bright, nonexistent underground and thus easily identifiable, can also be used for demarkation purposes.
12. (optional)Chestsare invaluable when exploring lava caves since players can store their items in case they die; instead of losing a whole stack of iron and half a stack of gold along with all of their food and weapons, they can drop a chest and a crafting table nearby, and lose only their current tools and whatever they hadn't stashed yet. It's worth writing down the coordinates of the stashes, just in case. Alternatively, the player can choose to usebarrels, since they are cheaper to make than chests, and does not need an empty space above to open.
13. (optional)Ladders. For when players who've fallen down, and can't get up. Also useful for reaching high tunnels and blocking off flooding water. Also useful for blocking lava for a minute.
14. (optional)Signs. These are useful to mark directions in a cavern. Leave messages or ASCII arrows for the player, such as "EXIT -->", "Base with Bed ^", "Zombie monster spawner this way", or "mind the holes!". Signs can be stacked, which makes carrying a supply much easier. Signs can also block water and lava while letting entities walk through it.
15. (Optional)Fences. Useful not only for blocking off unexplored passages, but for containing waterfalls and rivers when players can't bucket the source. As noted above, players can also harvest these in mineshafts.
16. (Optional) Markers of various kinds. Aside from the above-mentioned signs,woolis available early, andredstoneturns up when the player get deep enough. If players have pumpkins available,jack o'lanternsprovide both light and direction.
17. (Optional)Wheat seedsandsaplings. Players can create an undergroundtree farmto replenish the player's supply oflogand a smallwheat farmto continuously grow wheat forbread, allowing players to stay underground for an infinite period of time. These should both be built in a safe, well-lit area, to prevent spawning of hostile mobs and to encourage growth.
18. (Optional)Doors. In conjunction with solid blocks, wooden doors can be used to temporarily block off unexplored caves and preventhostile mobsentering a secured area. The crafting recipe for wooden doors creates three doors from sixwood planks, hence each door uses two wood planks—the same as what would be required to block a 2×1 hole but with the ability to pass through with ease, and return in a hurry if there are a large number of mobs on the other side. Somezombiescan break through wooden doors onHard, and consideration should be given to this when playing on this difficulty level. After an area is neutralized the doors may be mined and placed deeper in the cave system, or left as a marker/decoration as well as giving protection against a surprisecreeperexplosion making a section of cave unsafe again.
19. (Optional)Bed.  Having a bed around might be useful when players could be trapped in a cave or ravine if players are on the surface during night time. Having a bed can help them set up a base camp if they are far from home and the surrounding area is filled with hostilemobsor other dangers. With the bed, players can sleep and avoid the danger of the night and return home safely in one piece. In recent versions, beds have gained the ability to immediately set the player's spawn point next to it when used. This allows the player to set their spawn point any time they foresee a high chance of dying, so that they can respawn close-by and return to their items as soon as possible if they happen to kick the bucket.
20. (Optional) Ashield. Can be used to block attacks. Especially useful with fighting skeletons. Blocks all damage from explosions as well, if a creeper starts hissing and the player has no time to run away.

