## Cave mining
Also known as cave hunting, caving, or spelunking, cave mining is simply the practice of exploring caves and extracting the ores found on its walls, floors and ceilings. Exploring a large cave system almost always results in finding large quantities of ore, though players probably will find bigger blobs of ore unexposed, because cave generation sometimes cuts off the blob generation. Cave mining has a high return on investment, yielding more ore per unit time and requiring fewer tools (less pickaxe and shovel durability is lost mining stone, dirt, and gravel) than other approaches.

On the other hand, cave mining is also quite dangerous. Unexplored caves are dark and tend to contain many hostile mobs. Swords, bows and armor are necessities. The player should carry a large supply of torches to light up the cave to prevent hostile mobs from spawning. If accessible, potions of night vision can be a good alternative to torches as they can light up the entire cave, but they are also unstackable and can be quite costly earlier on. Large cave systems can become confusing and dangerous. Special attention must be paid to navigation, lest one quickly gets lost. Moving through a cave too quickly makes it easy to miss unlit passages around the player where monsters can come out, and increases the chance of falling into a hole. This becomes extremely dangerous when the player is stuck in there and encounters mobs. Players can also fall into a lava pool which will result not only in death but in all of their items being destroyed in the lava. All air blocks below y=55 and above y=63 are converted into lava during world generation. Because of these factors, players usually carefully explore and light a cave before extracting ores. Another disadvantage to cave mining is that when ores generate exposed in a cave, they have a 50% chance of the generation being cancelled. Therefore, the ore amount per chunk is lower in chunks where there is a big cave.

The cave article contains tips on dealing with large cave systems, while the Navigation tutorial has a section on caverns.

It is a good idea to carry a bucket of water. Caves often contain random lava flows, and cave areas below level 10 are filled with large lava pools. A bucket of water serves as both a fire extinguisher, if the player fall in; and as a way to form obsidian surfaces over lava pools (pour water onto a solid block adjacent to a lava pool; do not stand between that spot and the lava). If the monsters are too much trouble, the player can also go to options and change the difficulty to "peaceful" to prevent mobs from spawning. However, the player could still die from lava, so don't forget that water bucket.

Caves often contain dead-end passages and shafts, or masses of gravel and dirt blocking the way. Many of these dead ends are actually thin barriers that, if removed, reveal continuing passages, sometimes into entire adjacent cave systems. 'Drifting' is a term for simply searching for adjacent caves by digging beyond apparent dead ends. Drifting can be effective in finding dungeons if there are mob sounds audible at a dead end. Once players can make pistons, those can also help detect nearby caves, even through rock: Set one up facing against a wall, and power it with a lever or redstone torch. If there's an open space within 12 blocks ahead of the piston, it will push a hole into the wall.

### Mineshafts
Mineshaft structures are often found intersecting caves, but the player may well stumble into one of these while mining their own tunnels. Dealing with them is similar to ordinary cave mining, but resources are more plentiful, especially log and string obtained from shears and swords (from cobwebs). The string can also be crafted into wool for markers. The special hazards here are that it's easier to get lost in mineshaft tunnels: they look dangerously similar, and pre-placed torches make it harder to know which places they have already explored. An idea for not getting lost in a mineshaft is to place torches only on the left side of the wall, so that when returning, the torches will always be on the right. Mineshafts can contain cave spider monster spawners which are rather difficult to reach and destroy. Often, there can be more than one in a small area, so even if the player destroys a monster spawner, be alert of the possibility of more monster spawners being in the area. There can be two, three or (very rarely) even four cave spider monster spawners within 16 blocks (or less) of one another, but usually, there is at most one monster spawner in any given area. If a cave spider is encountered, make sure to quickly place a torch before it becomes hostile, and if it already is hostile, place a water bucket so that they will be pushed back by the flowing water, making it easier to kill. Build a 2 block tall pillar so you can attack the cave spiders while they are climbing up the pole, keeping them at bay and keeping yourself from taking damage.

Since supports of tunnels are made out of planks and fences, the need to surface due to wood shortage is also lower. Fences can be used to block off potentially dangerous areas such as cave spider monster spawners. In addition, mineshafts contain broken sections of rails and minecart with chests with loot. These rails can be reassembled into complete tracks for transporting loot. One method to avoid getting lost is simply to remove everything (supports, rails etc.) from the tunnel, leaving only a plain 3×3 tunnel. This makes it much easier to recall where the player has been, although it takes quite a bit longer (and uses lots of axes). Signs and other markers are also very helpful here.

