## Exploring the Nether
When exploring the Nether, there are a few things to remember:

- Hostile mobs are common, and can spawn anywhere there is space. Luckily, what are perhaps the two most dangerous Nether mobs—ghasts and blazes—have special spawning needs.Ghastsrequire a 5×4×5 space to spawn, free of transparent blocks and slabs, and spawn rarely in nether wastes and basalt deltas, but are quite common in soul sand valleys.Blazesspawn only in nether fortresses, and only below light level 12.Zombified Piglinsare common as well—while they start out neutral, they can easily get in the player's way so that they accidentally attack them, and they spawn only in nether wastes, crimson forest, and nether fortresses.
	- Wear a piece of gold armor if possible, because if you don't wear gold armor,piglinsattack you.
- Be generous about laying downcobblestonepaths and putting up ghast shelters preemptively. If you need more cobblestone, go back to the overworld and get more.
	- You can actually use the netherrack you mined to make nether bricks, smelt it with lava, which is plentiful. This is time-consuming, but nether bricks are as good building material as cobblestone, and it's plentiful. You could actually make an auto-smelter to smelt your netherrack.
	- You can also use Blackstone for an alternative block, especially if you're in basalt deltas.
- If you die in the Nether, you respawn back in theOverworld(Unless you use arespawn anchor, which you can set your spawn there). As long as you stay in the Overworld,Nether time is frozen. In particular, you can take all the time you want to re-equip yourself and plan; when you do go back, if you can get from the portal to your death site within 5 minutes, you may well be able to retrieve anything not lost tofire,lavaorexplosions.
	- If you're playing in multiplayer, this may not apply: if there areotherplayers nearby in the Nether, they can keep the chunk loaded and the clock running. Also, they might save and/or steal your items!
	- Even in single-player, if the Overworld side of the portal is loaded, it can spawn zombified piglins, which may wander through the portal.  Every time they do this, the Nether side of the portal is loaded for about 15 seconds — not much, but if you spendtoolong before heading back, it can add up.
	- If you use a respawn anchor to respawn in the Nether, you need glowstone to charge it, and it requires rare crying obsidian to craft it. You can get crying obsidian from bartering or mining them from ruined portals.
- Navigation is tough. Where the in-game methods below fail, thedebug screenmay be helpful, as it provides your coordinates and direction, or if you have a lodestone and a lodestone compass(normal compasses spin wildly), you can find your portal easily by putting the lodestone near the portal, then link the compass.
	- Normalcompassesandclocksspin wildly (although theday/night cyclecontinues while in the Nether), andmapsmade in the overworld don't work either.
		- Use lodestone compasses for navigation in the Nether, which require lodestone crafted from a netherite ingot and chiseled stone bricks.
	- You can activate a blankmapinthe Nether, and use a crafting table to zoom it out a bit. However, such a map shows only thebedrock"roof", and the direction indicator spins randomly, so it's not nearly as useful as an Overworld map. On the other hand, it does give some idea of where you've explored, and the markerisin the correctlocationon the map. While maps are not centered exactly at their creation, you can put framed clones of the map on your portals to make those green markers appear in the correct locations.
	- When exploring, try to keep going in one direction until you reach an impassable obstacle (wall, cliff, lava lake), and leave a trail of markers along the path from your base, so you can easily find your way back. Dirt and torches are recognizable, butjack o'lanternslet you point thedirectionto your base (all the above are vulnerable to ghast fireballs, but unlike torches, jack o'lanterns remain if the netherrack supporting them is blown away.) Cobblestone arches (as well as any paths you've made) also work well as they resist ghast fireballs, are easily distinguishable from surrounding netherrack, and can be positioned so that passing through them orients you to the direction you came.
	- Tunneling through netherrack: Making a 1×2 tunnel is a sure way to get killed by lava. Instead dig a 2-wide tunnel with the floor of the left side one block lower than the right, or vice-versa. This makes a trench for the lava, and if you're standing on the high ground, the lava does not touch you. Staircases are trickier: When digging down, lava can appear below or in front of you and can be bucketed or blocked off. When digging up, dig 2-wide, and regularly put 2-long areas with a one-block pit in front of the next step. This gives you someplace to dodge flowing lava, and the pits capture the flow. Also, watch out for lava "drips" when mining upward. Ladders or signs can also help block lava until you have a chance to do something about it.
	- And again, thedebug screenprovides your coordinates and facing—this is also helpful for choosing where to place a new gate back to the overworld.
- This cannot be restated enough: be sure to build a base. This way, if you accidentally attack a mob of zombified piglin or have a ghast on your trail, your base must protect you, and consist of more than just an exposed nether portal. Again, as ghast fireballs can blow large holes in netherrack walls, you should construct your base out ofcobblestone,stone, or, for a decorative look,stone bricks. Not only do these blocks have the necessaryBlast Resistanceto withstand a ghast fireball, they also are not found naturally in the Nether. This makes it much easier to identify your base from a distance.

## Nether fortresses
Main article: Tutorials/Defeating a Nether fortress
One of your main objectives in the Nether is to locate a nether fortress. To see all the features of the nether fortresses visually, try this video "here". Basically, their straight walkways and tall pillars are unmistakable but may be dimmed by distance. Be sure to look carefully into the abyss beyond the edges of the areas you explore; if you're not using Far render distance already, you can occasionally switch to it to see farther. If you do not see any, remember that the lava seas that generate in the Nether allow the player to spot more land, and a saddled strider can help in this regard. Be aware that sometimes most of the fortress is engulfed in netherrack. Therefore, open your eyes and look for signs of fortress-like nether bricks, blazes, and wither skeletons.

Even after spotting one, you may well need to find a way to get to it, or even build a bridge to it. (Suggestion: three-wide cobblestone, with two-high iron bars or nether brick fences for railings, and a roof. Those ghast get really annoying when you're out on a bridge… you might even put in a couple of turrets for sniping at them, too.)

Once you do find one, it is a good idea to make sure you have the necessary supplies to gather its many resources. So, head back to your base, or even back to the Overworld, and get, at a minimum, a stone pickaxe, an iron sword and lots and lots of food. An enchanted golden apple is handy when it's time to take on a blaze spawner, but you may want to stash that nearby and go back for it when you actually find the spawner.  Trading with piglins can also get you potions of fire resistance before the fight.
Lots of walls of any non-flammable material or nether brick fences are handy too: safety railings on the walkways are really nice when ghast starts taking potshots at you and blocking off unused areas and broken bridges helps cut down on fights.

There are a few things that are of the utmost importance when exploring a nether fortress:

- Explore the nether fortress thoroughly. You might not find much, but every once in a while you can findnether wartplantations, which usually generate behind staircases, or a blaze spawner. These are your key prizes, as theonlyplaces you can find these are in the nether fortress, or inbastion remnants, which is both rarer and more dangerous. Details on nether wart farms can be found on thenether wart farmingpage.
- Wither skeletonsare scary but they can't go through a 2-block high passage.
- When exploring a nether fortress, always place torches to your right. That way, when you want to get out, you just make sure that the torches are on your left. Jack o'lanterns make this even simpler — always face them toward the exit (or where you need to go toreachsaid exit).
- If you come across anether wartplantation, collect as many (if not all) of them as you can, as nether wart can be used to brew awkward potions——the base for most potions, then replant the plot (you'll have plenty leftover).  Then go back to your base and create anether wartfarm by planting it onsoul sand. Nether wart doesn't care about light or water and grows in the Overworld and The End, so you can take the farm back to your overworld base. Note that you don'tuseall that much, so four to six blocks of soul sand support a brewery and then some. You can use excess nether wart to trade with Cleric villagers and get a couple extra emeralds, which is better than throwing them away or hoarding them.
- You may well want to build a portal leading back to the overworld from the nether fortress. Having an Overworld base handy provides all the supplies you need.
- When you find a blaze spawner, you have a choice: turn it off, or farm it. There are usually at least two blaze spawners per nether fortress, and if multiple nether fortresses have joined together there may be more. So, don't assume the first one you find is your only option, but you do need to fight blazes at least once "the hard way" if you didn't get a fire resistance potion by bartering (enchanted golden apple notwithstanding). That first fight may be fairly tough, but together with the nether wart, you gain the means to makepotions, including potions of Fire Resistance.Thosemake return engagements much easier.

