# Tutorials/Obtaining a crash report
This tutorial is to help you obtain crash reports generated by Minecraft. Crash reports can help developers confirm and diagnose issues and should be included in bugs on the Bug tracker whenever possible.

## Obtaining the crash report file
- Navigate to your game directory as specified in your installation in theLauncher.

- On Windows, it is%appdata%\.minecraft\by default
- On MacOS, it is~/Library/Application Support/minecraftby default
- On Linux, it is~/.minecraftby default

- Navigate into thecrash-reportsdirectory in the game directory.

- If the crash reports directory does not exist, the game may have crashed of a JVM failure, and one or multiplehs_err_pid#####.logfile may be present in the game directory instead. Upload this file.

- There should be files named likecrash-yyyy-mm-dd_hh.mm.ss-(client/server).txt. The crash reports are named by the time of crash, with which you can decide which file is your crash report.

## Deobfuscating the crash report file
See also: Obfuscation map

Deobfuscating the crash report file with obfuscation maps and uploading the deobfuscated version to the Bug tracker may make it easier for Mojang developers to track down the cause of the crash.

Retrace is the tool to parse obfuscation maps.[1] To run retrace, you need to have Java 8 or above installed on your device.

You can download proguard from their GitHub releases. Decompress the downloaded archive, such as proguard-7.4.2.zip, into a directory. Enter its bin directory. There will be proguardgui.bat and proguardgui.sh executable files available.

- On Windows, run theproguardgui.batfile.
- On Unix systems, run theproguardgui.shfile.

A Java application will launch.

- Proguard User Interface
- ReTrace Section

On the left side of the User Interface, there is a section, "ReTrace". Enter that section.

Download the obfuscation map you need for "Mapping file". Paste the crash report. You can then obtain the deobfuscated crash report for sharing.


