## Strategy
Longer term, overall strategy during fights to make the most out of your PVP skills. This section will detail how to heal yourself properly, win fights when outnumbered, heal your armor, and use your utility items properly.

### How to Heal
You can heal faster by having high saturation, or by consuming a healing item like a golden apple or a potion of Healing. Foods with high saturation such as golden carrots are preferred as more saturation translates to a longer period of faster healing. Since healing by eating normally takes some time and slows you down you want to do it while sprint jumping away if you can't ender pearl, preferrable after separating from your opponent as well as possible. KB hits, cobwebs, and blocks can all help you get away. If your opponent is healing, make the most of that time. Crit them out to drain them of resources if they are close. If they aren't close enough for you to reach this, do something else such as healing or refilling your hotbar. Just running at your opponent doesn't help you. Its also common for players to KB hit their opponent on the last hit while their opponent is healing. This sets their opponent up for a combo when they finish eating.

### Winning outnumbered fights
When you met with multiple people that has the intent on killing you, the best option is of course run or negotiate for peace. If that's not an option though, you'll need to figure something else out.

- Try to separate them before going in. Wait for one to run and heal, run away until one falls behind, or KB hit one into a ditch and then 1v1 the remaining one.
- The best way to winning outnumbered fights is by targeting them one at a time. Target the weakest one first, or the one thats least skilled. If you have no good options, target the player that's least consistent about healing. Your goal is to win by dropping them, since youll lose any drain fight.
- If you get a kill on one of them and they drop their stuff, grab anything like healing, XP bottles, or spare armor. Pick up anything useful from them, and if the other enemy is near, burn/hide their stuff so the other enemies cannot get it. This way, you'll be left with a gear advantage and will be able to last against the remaining enemies.
- If you and your enemies have the same gear, you can try to splash an invisibility potion on them in the heat of close combat to hide the nametags and confuse them so they don't know who's on whose team. It is highly unlikely that they will carry a bucket of milk specifically to counter invisibility. There are enemy teams that will carry a specific item to identify each other (such as colored wool) but having to switch to that takes time and gives you some breathing room to heal up or plan your next move. Also note that ever since 1.20, armor trims make this nearly impossible.
- During a frenzy, especially a 1v2, focus one target while strafing around them, keeping them inbetween you and the other opponent. This essentially uses them to shield you from their teammate, keeping the damage you take to a reasonable amount.

### Proper usage of utilities
Utilities are your backup weapons in a fight. The most effective way to use utilities is to have just a couple in your hotbar and become quick and experienced with using them so you can constantly bombard your opponent with effective secondary attacks.

- Proper usage of ender pearls is important. When escaping, you should throw your pearls not too close to the enemy, as they can easily chase you and kill, but not too far as pearl teleports aren't instant and they will have enough time to inflict massive damage or finish you off. An important game mechanic in Minecraft combat is known as the i-frame, or invincibility frame, wherein if a player took damage, they'll appear as red for 0.5 seconds. During this time, they cannot take knockback from anything other than explosions, so by using the damage done by an ender pearl teleport, you can get right into your opponent's face without taking knockback from their attacks. This is called pearl flashing and is best done when you need a tempo advantage over your enemy, which is why sometimes you see pro players use their ender pearls on their opponent for no apparent reason. Keep in mind thatanyform of damage will grant i-frames, which includes fall damage, poison, hazardous blocks like cactus, fire, and magma, and hostile mobs. If those things are around and you're in a position where taking knockback is much less preferred than taking some damage, it would be wise to run into those hazards on purpose to decrease your odds of being knocked around.

- Cobwebs are another great utility to use. Cobwebs can either be used defensively or offensively. In defensive play, they're used to slow down a chasing opponent, useful to heal momentarily or manage your inventory. In offensive play, place a cobweb on someone and repeatedly strafe and crit someone out, or if you have harming arrows, pepper it on them by using a bow or a crossbow enchanted with Quick Charge III. Be aware though that cobwebs are also easy to escape, either by using ender pearls or with a water bucket. There is also no way to renewably farm cobwebs so use them efficiently. One of the most effective ways to use cobwebs is to use themdynamically,by transitioning from defensive to offensive. Say your enemy is chasing you, and you trap them in a cobweb. You can follow up by webbing them more, blocking them in and lighting TNT around them, so your enemy has to deal with a potentially deadly threat while you can heal or prepare to catch them during their escape before they can react. Two other uses of cobweb are the Hit Web and Head Web.
	- A hit web is hitting your opponent (who will have to be close to you for this to work) and immediately placing a cobweb behind them, in the path of their KB. The advantage of this is that they are suspended in the air, making it harder for them to hit you back and giving you an easy setup, despite being mechanically somewhat difficult.
	- A head web is hitting your opponent against a wall and placing a cobweb in their head (third block up). If possible place blocks surrounding the web on all sides but the bottom. Hit their legs/feet. They won't be able to use water to escape, so used correctly this is a good way to quickdrop someone, or at least deal a huge amount of damage before they escape. An often overlooked aspect of the cobweb is their ability to prevent knockback, which can sometimes be a life saver if, say, you're about to get knocked off the map or if you know the enemy would put ender crystals in your face once they deal that knockback. Its even possible to simply place a cobweb under you while you're being comboed to end it then and there, although you'd best have a plan to get out before you are crit out.
	- Draining: Draining is spamming lava or an empty bucket on top of a cobweb that your opponent is in. If they use water to escape, the water will be destroyed and they will be trapped, not only keeping them in the web but stealing their escape method.

- Tipped arrows are one of the most powerful items in the game, and can give you a massive advantage if you bring them in the right situations. They're expensive and tedious to craft, but the payoff in bringing them is invaluable.  Some tipped arrows such as the arrow of regeneration are downright useless in PvP scenarios, though, and the only useful ones in PvP combat are Harming II, Weakness, Slowness, Poison and Slow Falling. Slowness or even Turtle Master is great if you are to give chase, since it makes you faster than your opponent and makes them easier to hit, weakness is great for extended trades as they will do less damage to you. Slow falling makes it very difficult and slow for your opponent to crit. They glide through the air after taking knockback, making them easy to combo or crit since they can't control themselves. Hit Webs (detailed  later) are far easier against them, as well.

- 
	- Be aware that tipped arrows aren't affected by Infinity and are consumed as if Infinity wasn't enchanted on the bow, so your only choice is to bring a ton of tipped arrows if you want to spam them constantly, and use a stack of regular arrows if you still want to make use of your infinity bow, as that way, you wouldn't run out of arrows to shoot even if you run out of the tipped ones. A high power enchant combined with full charge could also override the harming arrows' effect (instant damage II) with its higher physical damage, which actually causes you to deal less damage with full charge than low charge since the tipped arrow effect ignores armor but the physical damage doesn't. Therefore, it is more advisable to use a crossbow with tipped arrows, as the piercing enchant goes through enemy shields and will apply tipped arrow debuffs, and if your enemy doesn't use a shield, multishot makes you fire a 3 arrow volley which is a lot harder to dodge than a single shot, and harming arrows will work no matter what, since it doesn't do enough physical damage to override its effects.

- Splash potions of Poison can help you in PVP. Poison constantly damages your opponent through their armor and messes up their movement with damage ticks. It can be countered with honey bottles which are stackable to 16 and quick to drink. When you poison someone you want to crit them out and drop them as fast as possible. Knockback hits are less effective as the damage ticks mess up and cancel their knockback. Extended poison messes up their movement for far longer but has none of the deadliness of Poison 2.

- Lava can be used to set your opponent on fire. The best method is to double click with your lava under your opponent so that you pick it back up but still ignite them. The basic goal of using lava is usually to deal a bit of damage and force your opponent to look down and douse themselves, giving you a window to hit them. This is best used after breaking your opponent's shield or another situation where you want to follow up on your opponent.
	- Standoff Breaking: If your opponent is staring at you with their shield held up, you can strafe to the side and use your lava on them, dodging their hit. Since their shield didn't break they can't “autohit” you. They will be forced to drop their shield and douse themselves, giving you an opening and dealing some damage.
	- Fire Pit: Not picking up your lava to instead leave it on your opponent, dealing higher damage and immobilizing your opponent completely until they use water. You can do this to punish an opponent who likes to not water themselves immediately. This is best used if you have lots of lava to spare. It gives you a ton of critical extra time, confusing your opponent and doing a fair amount of damage.
	- Burning: If you are caught on fire, it's possible to not douse yourself and begin to crit your opponent out. They will have difficulty hitting you away because the fire damage will mess up the knockback you take. Even better, place lava on them as well so that you are both on fire. Stand next to them so that if they take time to douse themselves, they accidentally douse you too!
	- Counter Lava: Using lava on your opponent to force them to water themselves, giving you time to do something else in return. Whether you need to escape a cobweb, heal, or reposition, this gives you a short break from their attacks.

- Water has many uses in PVP. It can be used to douse yourself if you are on fire, or placed on top of a cobweb to destroy the cobweb. It can also be placed on your opponent to slow them massively as they wade through the pool it creates. Once they are stuck it's your choice if you want to safely heal or attack them while you have an advantage. If you attack them, use critical hits as they can't escape them but don't take knockback from Knockback hits.

- Sponges can be used to get rid of your opponent's water. An especially effective use of sponges is to place them down after using lava or cobwebs on your opponent to prevent them from using water at all. If your opponent fully runs out of water, try to cobweb them or lava them as they wont have any way to rectify the situation.

- One usage of blocks is to place blocks below you to run above enemies cobwebs or water. Alternatively, destroy their water source blocks to drain them of their waters. Another is to place blocks in your enemies way. Alternatively, place a block in front of your opponent at about 4 blocks away. They will run into it and then not be able to sprint anymore. Not having forward momentum, they lose momentum reach AND can't knockback hit you, giving you a free hit usually.

