#### 
When your own shield is disabled, you are very vulnerable to the crit or combo follow ups in #⚜foundation. By far one of the most effective ways to play while your shield is disabled is KB hit trading. Back away and try to bait your opponent. Trade KB hits with them, holding S after each hit to get too far away from your opponent to be comboed. This is a very slow playstyle and your shield will come back up soon. The reason it works so well is that if your opponent attempts to block your hit with their shield, you can easily either disable it or back away from their hit before they lower their shield, rendering their shield advantage useless.
Another trick you can use when your shield is disabled is literally to pearl out and heal. If you can safely get the pearl off, you might avoid a very costly encounter. It might seem sort of hacky or cringe, since you're just running away whenever you're at a disadvantage, but your opponent can't do anything besides cry about it. Don't do this if you are going to get crit out while the pearl is in the air.

### Shield Techniques
Here are some shield related techniques you can use. Some of these are very difficult to perform, and some of them delightfully simple, but they can give you a significant edge in getting more effectiveness out of your shield.

- Shield Delay Bait: You can abuse the roughly 1/2 second delay on raising your shield to trick your opponent into try to disable a shield that isn't really there. If you raise your shield quickly, for less time than the delay, your shield never becomes active but appears on screen, making your opponent think that they can disable it. If they fall for it they will be axe-spam-clicking your body and accomplishing nothing, making them easy to crit out.

- Hit Delaying: Hold up your shield and wait until your opponent hits you, then immediately hit them back. Due to shield delay they won't be able to get their shield up fast enough and you get a free hit on them. The only danger of this method is that if you hold it up for very long, most opponents will disable your shield. You will need to precit your opponents hit, which is easiest if they jump at you. Most times, since they jumped, they will be desperate to crit you and will hit into your shield while falling, hoping that you will drop it. Just wait for their crit to be blocked, and hit them immediately after. This method is especially powerful in UHC, where losing your shield isn't as easily punished. Its very easy and is best at countering over-aggressive players.

- Cooldown Trick: By swapping to your axe at the exact time you hit with a sword, you can perform a sort of bugged sword hit that deals full sword knockback and damage, but can disable shields. It has to be done extremely fast, but can be incredibly powerful when you don't want your hit blocked.

- Shield Sacrifice: This is essentially autohittting in SMP kit, where you plan to let your shield be disabled in exchange for a hit. The advantages are that you get a free hit and take no damage or KB from their hit, possibly saving you from a bad situation. However, having lost your shield for just one hit, you need a strong understanding and a plan for how you will play with your shield down. Shield Sacrificing is actually a very powerful and important technique. It can be frustrating to punish and confusing to play against, but to employ it, you MUST be using it in high-impact situations and avoiding any disable follow-ups.

- Pre-Firing: Lowering your shield has a delay similar to raising it, its just much faster (this can be tested in singleplayer). If you predict when your opponent is going to lower their shield and hit, but are afraid of your shield being disabled and don't want to use Hit Delaying, KB hit before them. Your hit will go through first if you lower your shield before them. You won't be able to block their hit, but by KB hitting and S tapping or strafing, you can dodge their hit. Congratulations on your free damage. Keep in mind that if you fail, hitting first will result in your opponent Hitselecting (explained in the Techniques section) your hit automatically. Either plan around that or make sure they aren't able to hit you.

### Shield Stuns
Shield stuns are highly important because they allow you to dodge the technique of Autohits. If you avoid the hit, you not only avoid the damage but the knockback that pushes you away and makes it much harder to follow up on your target after the shield break. There are many variations of the basic shield stun for different situations that can allow you to better avoid their hit or set you up for a follow up.

- Crouch Stun: One of the most well known stuns from the Axe gamemode, but still effective in SMP, Crouch Stuns are simply crouching just before you hit your opponent. Since your stun hits them up and you bob down, you make yourself further from them and hopefully dodge under their crosshair.

- Uppercut Stun: The Uppercut Stun is, obviously, stunning your opponent during an uppercut while rising up into the air. It's similar to a basic sprinting stun, but utilizes the element of surpise. By jerking forwards, you stun your opponent before they may be prepared to hit you back. Instantly hit out of your range, they will hopefully miss. Otherwise it isn't particularly effective.

- Sidestep Stun: Holding A or D during a shield stun lets you very finely enter and exit the very edge of your opponents range, and ideally be just barely too far away from them when their autohit happens. It can also make them miss, especially if done with Speed II.

- Close-Sidestep Stun: A close-sidestep stun is, again, holding A or D while stunning and is, again, far more effective with swiftness. The difference is that it is done as close as possible to the target. Instead of moving in and out of their range, you run out of their crosshair for the window that you are vulnerable. It's best used in low health, shield dancing scenarios and is particularly deadly because of how close to your opponent you are and how therefore easy it is to follow up.

- Combo Stun: Extremely effective kind of stun, especially in SMP combat. First you must KB hit your opponent. Typically they will hold shield to block a Combo Hit, and if they do, you strike. Because of the principles behind Combo Hits (Explained in the Foundation section) the stun will deal extra knockback and prevent them from hitting you. If you S-tap after the stun, it's easy to follow up with more Combo Hits. Because of this, a Combo Stun is devastating if you can predict your opponent's shield usage.



