### How to Deal With Terrain
#### Physical Terrain
- Inclines:Inclines are hills and slopes that spawn naturally all over the vanilla world, where the terrain moves up by a block every couple blocks or so. It's important to be able to play around them since most practice servers dont have them. If your opponent is ever trying to move up an incline by jumping up one block, hit them just before they jump. This suspends them in the air and prevents them from jumping, making them weirdly stuck. You can and should do this repeatedly.
	- Lower Ground:Usually in PVP you want to keep the lower ground. Because your head is lower than their, you can hit them from further away, an effect that is made even more extreme if you crouch. Try to use KB hits to hold them back so that they can't get to the same level as you. If they do, just drop back another level to keep the low ground.
	- Higher Ground:Having the higher ground makes it much more difficult for enemies to chase you uphill, and lets you hit them away from you further. It's very easy for you to rush them by no-KB critting towards them, as your fall will be extra long, giving you a longer window where KB hits are inefficient. Additionally, by stepping off of a ledge, you can get a critical hit without having to jump, which requires fairly precise timing but is very strong if you can pull it off fluidly.
- Walls:Walls can be a cave wall you're in, a steep slope nearby, or a tree you've wandered in nearby. All of them force the fight to be closer range and put cobwebs in the spotlight, making Headwebs available on every hit.
	- Playing Against a Wall:Being backed up against a wall in a fight certainly... doesn't sound ideal, but considering it, your only two disadvantages are that you can't run and you can be headwebbed easily. If your opponent likes to headweb you, treat a wall like a hazard and stay away from it. If you are pushed into a wall, put a block above your head so they can't headweb you, or pre-water the wall. If headwebs aren't such a big concern, then as long as you aren't at an HP disadvantage and need to run, walls are pretty good! You take no knockback if you get hit into a wall, meaning that you can crit or pcrit your opponent to no end.
	- Pushing Your Opponent Into a Wall:Crit them out, since you won't be able to deal knockback anyway. Your goal is to drop them and make it akward and in the end, costly or impossible for them to escape and heal. The only exception is if you also have the low ground: if they can't run and can't advance past your KB hits, they will be trapped in a position where they have lower reach. And finally, headweb them whenever you think you can. It's okay to preplace the web and then hit them into it if they aren't moving them from their spot.

#### Hazards
A hazard is any area that's dangerous or disadvantageous to be. Most likely its a lava pool, ravine opening, or for a particularly experienced player, even just a wall that's easy to headweb against. In any case, both players want to stay away from it and force the other player into it. When playing around a hazard, strafe around your opponent constantly and stay low to the ground, letting you move more effectively to put them inbetween you and the hazard. Whether you're successful or not, you'll need to push your opponent back and gain ground. To do this, disable their shield and don't let yours be disabled, at all costs. Use techniques like Shoving to advance forwards consistently without taking much knockback or Uppercutting to gain lots of ground very quickly. If your opponent crits you, Sidesweeps are a viable option (only if you're losing) to run around behind them and flip the scenario on them.

- Cliffs and Holes:The goal with these is always to hit your opponent over the edge, making them stack or water back up to you and possibly take fall damage. Feather Falling reduces your fall damage down to 20%, making cliffs not a danger but just a piece of terrain that's one way. When your opponent attempts to come back up, use this opportunity to KB hit them back off and force them to waste lots of time and resources to come back up to you. Also not a bad time to use a punch bow, which especially helps drain their armor.

- Water Pools:Water pools that spawn in plain biomes or the like are a mixed bag. Being in one prevents you from critting/jumping and slows you significantly, basically trapping you. However, while in one, you have the lower ground and are immune to lava/webs. If in a water pool, dig down one block and enter Swimming Mode, making you fast and making your hitbox comically low and small. Essentially get KB hits past their shield and come out ahead in damage, then safely exit the pool once they heal. If you are pushing somebody in a water pool, get very close and place blocks below you to allow you to continue to crit them.

- Lava Pools:If both players have Fire resistance, treat a lava pool as a water pool where you can't swim. Lava pools massively slow and damage the player in them and due to the constant damage ticks make it hard to swim out of them. If your opponent is in a lava pool, try to keep them in the pool and don't take too many hits; let the lava kill them. Place blocks on edges where they are attempting to swim out.

- Mobs:Most mobs don't do enough damage to be important in PVP, but you can still let them do some work for you. During the nighttime, notice if a spider, skeleton or creeper has aggroed on your opponent. If so, play passive with shield and continually hit them away until they're eventually forced to distract themselves with killing the mob. Simply run intil out of range if a mob decides to attack you.

