## Melee Combat: How to Fight
The majority of PVP is melee based combat: using your axe, sword and shield to damage your opponent directly. Swords and Axes are the strongest, most damaging non-crystal PVP weapons in the game and have no real limitations beyond range. Always use a shield in your offhand due to how effective it is against melee weapons. This section is to teach you how to PVP, becoming more advanced and skilled as it goes on.
This section will detail the strategies of how melee works, beginning with the Foundations of melee PVP.

### Foundation:
You have three avenues and essential concepts to use while attacking the enemy, in order to deal more damage: Crits deal 50% more damage per attack. If you crit and they don't, you win by a landslide. KB hits make your opponent miss attacks or set them up for crits. Blocking hits with shield and then attacking yourself lets you attack without taking any damage. Combined, they make up basically all of pvp. Let's examine crits first. They sound pretty overpowered. Note that using Axes to deal more damage is usually not a viable method, as the slightly increased damage per hit is negligible once you factor in the very low attack speed.

- CRITICAL HITS: If you can manage to crit somebody all the time, you win. You do significantly more damage to them than they do to you; you just win. Since you can jump 1.6 times a second, and can attack 1.6 times a second, critting constantly sounds great! Critting deals little significant knockback and so in general you want to play very close to your opponent to crit (no good reason to play near the edge of their range). Remember that you cannot critically hit someone while sprinting, so it is necessary to release W or tap S before you hit them to cancel your sprint. The reason you don't crit every attack is twofold. First, you must attack while falling. This means that your opponent knows you will hit during that time, making your attacks easy to block with shield, or to dodge out of. Secondly, jumping hinders lateral movement and harms your range, making you easy to hit at the edge of range during your jump. If you crit all the time, you'll get hit away in the middle of your jump and lose.
- KNOCKBACK HITS: The goal of a knockback hit is to hit your opponent up and away from you, out of the 3 block range so they cannot hit you back. Note that hitting someone's shield does no knockback and so well timed shielding can destroy this strategy as well. To successfully do this, you want to position yourself as close to the 3 block hit range as you can so that when you hit your opponent they are hit out of the 3 block range ASAP. The core of this strategy is sprinting and staying low to the ground in order to have the best reach possible.
	- A possible counter: Jump Resetting their hits will do a lot of damage to their playstyle. If someone is jump resetting your hits constantly, you may be forced to use more crits against them, or use some of the tactics listed later in the guide.
	- Combo Hitting: A combo hit is hitting your opponent at a specific timing after they fall to prevent them from hitting you back. The goal is to hit your opponent just as they hit the ground, before they can reset their sprint to reduce their knockback or hit you. A combo is chaining together many combo hits in a row. This method is utterly deadly, requires skill, and can be countered with a timed shield block to block your KB hit. They can then reset their sprint and hit you back.

Spacing is the concept of staying just out of your opponents reach, close enough to dart in and KB hit them at the right time to continue your combo.

### Techniques:
There are many techniques and maneuvers you can use in PVP to give yourself a large advantage. This is the next step in complexity in PVP up from just critting and shielding.

- Crit Spacing: When you try to crit a more experienced player, you will find it is often hard. If you jump at them while too close to them, they sprint in and hit you early in your jump, easily deflecting you. If you jump too far away from them, they just back out. Using proper crit spacing, you can crit them so if they try to back away, you get a free hit, but if they hit you, you are at the end of your jump and you are hit into the ground, taking very little knockback and you are still able to crit them.

- Crit Deflections: Crit deflections are a viable counter to being crit. Don't hit your opponent immediately. While in the air, your opponent is holding down W and sprinting and will therefore take very little knockback, until they touch the ground (after they crit you). They will take large amounts of knockback because they had to cancel their sprint to crit you. Exactly when they touch the ground, KB hit them and then pull back a little bit to begin a combo.

- Punish Crit (P-crit): P-crits are basically using the hit of your opponent to make a crit, since you're attacked, knockback would be applied to you and you would rise to the air momentarily. By using this short timeframe, as you're falling down and hit somebody, you make a crit. P-crits are useful pretty much anytime that you are able to perform them, because they give you the 1.5x damage. Most notably they can be used after you get crit, since your opponent will be close to you and their crit deals very little knockback. To p-crit you want to be close to your opponent. If you p-crit them every time they crit you, you will go even and overall things won't turn out too bad. The biggest problem is that most players shield right after critting, so your hit will be blocked constantly if they have shield.

- No-KB crit: A No-KB Crit is immediately holding W into your opponent after critting them, even before you hit the ground. It lets you stay close to them because you take less knockback if you are sprinting or holding W. It's a good technique to use if you want to stay very close and crit them out, but is especially powerful against Crit Deflections. If the opponent tries to Crit Deflect a No-KB crit, they might not be able to hit you far away enough and you can Pcrit their hit, or KB hit them back if you prefer.

- Double-crits: Double critting is jumping to your opponent for a crit, then using a p-crit to do a second crit. It works very well against No-KB critting because they can't hit you away: they're too close to you. It does lots of damage very fast and turns a situation where you are being crit into a situation where you are even, critting each other out.

- S-Tapping: Quickly tapping S to back away right after KB hitting your opponent, increasing the chance that you back out of their hit and maintain good spacing for a combo. If you are too close to them, they will just hit you while in the air and break your combo.

- S-holding: A technique that can be used to get out of combos very very easily by... holding down the S key. You will take a huge amount of KB and definitely miss your next hit, but be hit far away from your opponent, letting you escape a combo. S holding makes it very easy for you to be crit, so be careful here.

- Circle Strafes: Circle Strafes is holding either A or D constantly, strafing a wide circle around your opponent while comboing them. It makes it harder for them to aim at you and allows you to maintain very good spacing, since you can turn a little to the left or right to move a little farther or closer to them.

- Uppercutting: Uppercutting is sprint jumping at your opponent and KB hitting them as you are still going up. It's an unusual technique, and can be used to catch your opponent off guard, since you burst forward with your jump faster than usual. Because of this you can also hold a combo with them if they try to back away and S hold. Additionally, if your opponent is using good Crit Spacing and you don't think you can reach them early enough in their jump to hit them away, uppercutting can be a good compromise to trade hits instead of getting crit. It's also a great counter to Jump Resetting, because your hit timing is irregular and hard to react to properly.

- Hitselecting: If you knockback hit someone while taking knockback yourself, the remainder of the knockback you have take is massively reduced. This is intentionally using the mechanic of hitselecting to take less knockback while trading sprinthits, giving you an opportunity to combo your opponent or set them up for a crit. In general, the less knockback you take, the better!

- Autohitting: Autohitting is done by spam clicking with your weapon while holding up shield. You won't attack with your weapon because you are holding shield, but if your shield ever drops (because it was disabled) you will instantly attack. If you do this, you just traded your shield for one hit, so you need to back up, possibly using items like cobwebs to slow them. This is especially good if you want to use a defensive play style.

- Shoving: This technique is extremely powerful, not particularly hard to employ, and gets harder to counter the better you get. Shoving is holding sprint into your opponent once you get close, holding shield and dropping it to KB hit them or sweep hit and continue to hold shield. The advantages are that you can keep your opponent off their feet and stay close to them, making counterplay very difficult. All pcrits or deflections will be blocked. If you are hit back, you can pcrit. If your shield gets disabled, you can crit deflect them away to avoid being punished. With total control over the spacing and movement of both players, Shoving is best used to feed into another technique. If used for too long your shield will be disabled and the Shove will end. You can transition into a Stun, Combo, No-KB Crit, Sidesweep, Backstab, and many other techniques easily by using a Shove as a setup.

- Walkthroughs: Walk or jump through your opponent, without turning around. Hit them while you are physically inside their hitbox. If your head is in the back half of their hitbox, you will hit them regardless of their shield. Extremely difficult to time, but can also get you free hits when both players are low. Like Backstabs, these work well while Shoving.

- S hold Crit: An S hold crit is a counter to Pcrits and Crit deflections. Hold S while in the air toward the end of your crit, allowing yourself to back out of their Pcrit or Crit deflection hit. When doing this, it's very easy for them to dodge your hit or hit you away in the air, so you have to predict that they will Pcrit or Crit deflect.

- Sidesweeps: After being crit, you can surprise your opponent by moving into them and strafing to their side, releasing W and sweep hitting them to deal very little knockback. You strafe so quickly around them that they are forced to miss their next hit, setting them up for an aggressive push. This works best against No-KB crits.

- Axe Bait: Hold up your shield at the start of an exchange. Drop it just as they run toward you; 8/10 times they try to disable your shield. While they're wasting their time spam clicking you with their axe, go kill them.

- Backstab: Get close to your opponent while they are shielding and sprint around them to their side and behind them, hitting them from behind and therefore ignoring their shield. It must be done faster than they can react and turn to face you. Works well against players that run when you disable their shield or crit deflect shield stuns, and can get you free hits.

- No-KB Disable: Perform a No-KB crit with your axe, with the intention to disable their shield (if they dont block, you get a free axe crit). When they hit you back, you will be knocked into the ground since you are still falling, keeping you very close to them, making it very easy to push them now that their shield is gone. This is one of the best counters to Autohitting in the game.

- Turn-Back Movement: This strategy is very underused and simple in theory. If your opponent has good spacing to crit you, but is more than 3 blocks away from you, you can turn away from them and sprint away, then turning back, usually to crit them. It fixes your disadvantageous situation and nobody can stop you, not even if they call you "cringe".
- Mirroring: When your opponent gapples in Nethpot, you do the same as well, this usually gives you +1 healing, allowing you to survive longer than your enemy.

