### Redstone block updates
Block updates are how most redstone compenents "tell" each other that they need to change states.




























































Two blocks by taxicab distance
When a change occurs somewhere in a redstone circuit, it can produce other changes in surrounding blocks in what is called a block update. Each of these changes can then produce other changes in their surrounding blocks. The update will propagate following the redstone circuit rules within loaded chunks (block updates will not propagate into unloaded chunks), usually very quickly. Note: in Bedrock Edition, block updates and redstone are not connected.

A block update simply notifies other Redstone components and blocks that a change has occurred nearby and allows them to change their own state in response, but not all updates will necessarily require changes. For example, if a redstone torch activates and updates the dust below it, the dust may already be powered from something else, in which case the dust won't change state and the update propagation will stop there.

Block updates can also be generated by any immediate neighbor block being placed, moved, or destroyed.

Solid blocks don't "know" if they're powered or not. Block updates simply update enough blocks around a redstone component to update other redstone components around the solid block (for example, a pressure plate updates its neighbors and the neighbors of the block it's attached to, which includes the space under that block which might be redstone dust).

In addition to block updates, comparators can be updated by containers (including detector rails with container minecarts on them) and certain other blocks, up to two blocks away horizontally when their state changes (for example, when their inventory changes). This is known as a comparator update.

The following redstone components produce block updates up to two blocks away by taxicab distance, including up and down:

- Redstone Dust(All directions)
- Redstone Torch(Up and down)
- Flat and slantedrails,activator rails,detector rails, andpowered rails(Up and down if slanted, down only otherwise)































Neighbors of component and of attachment block
The following redstone components produce block updates in their immediate neighbors, including above and below, and in the immediate neighbors of the block they're attached to:

- Redstone Repeater(as if "attached" to the block it is facing)
- Redstone Comparator(as if "attached" to the block it is facing)
- Buttons
- Detector Rail(flat only; also produces comparator updates)
- Lever
- Pressure Plates
- Trapped Chest(as if "attached" to the block beneath; also produces comparator updates)
- Tripwire Hook
- Weighted Pressure Plates
- Observer

























Immediate neighbors
The following redstone components update only their immediate neighbors when they change their state, including above and below:

- Daylight Detector
- Inverted Daylight Detector(the Inverted Daylight Detector is not obtainable as anitem)
- Note Block
- Leaves
- Scaffolding

This is an XOR gate.
- Tripwire(can also activate tripwire hooks in valid tripwire circuit)
- Pistonand Sticky Piston (from both the piston base and the piston head when extended

The following redstone components do not produce block updates when they change their state (though any block will produce a block update in its immediate neighbors if moved or destroyed):

- Impulse Command Block(also produces comparator updates)
- Repeating Command Block(also produces comparator updates)
- Chain Command Block(also produces comparator updates)
- Dispenser(also produces comparator updates)
- Dropper(also produces comparator updates)
- Doors
- Fence Gates(can be moved)
- Hopper(also produces comparator updates)
- Redstone Lamp(can be moved)
- Trapdoors(can be moved)


