### Ghasts
If you get lost in the Nether and have no choice but to start a new shelter there, or even if you just wish to try out Nether survival, your biggest problem is ghasts. They can fly through the air, shoot fireballs that explode on contact with the ground (although the explosion is fairly weak), and can spot you from 100 blocks away. Obviously, a simple fence won't suffice. The simplest solution is to build a roof over your entire living area, preferably fairly big, in case you feel like expanding your house later, and start building a house in it. The best material would be glass, as you can see through it and tell if any ghasts are nearby before leaving your dome, with the downside of breaking easily if a fireball hits it and not being a renewable resource in the Nether. A recommended material is to use cobblestone, stone, and any deepslate variant as they are highly defensive against the ghast's explosion, and very easy to obtain. (I have only tested this with cobbled deepslate.)

Because ghasts require a 5×5×5 space to spawn, it is possible to create a large ghast-free area in a cavern by placing blocks so that there is never enough space for the ghasts to spawn. Start by walling in any entrances to the cavern so that ghasts can't wander in. Then, you need to place blocks within that cavern to prevent any new ones from spawning (this is easiest to do in Peaceful difficulty). The simplest method would be 1×1 pillars of any material, placed in a grid across the entire cavern, with 4 clear squares in each direction between each pillar. A more complex method is to place glass blocks in a 3-dimensional grid to fill up the entire space rather than pillars. The only limit to how large an area you can protect is resources. Once you have protected a cavern like this, you can terraform it, and it is actually safer than anything you can build in the Overworld since the only mobs that can spawn are magma cubes and piglins. But you can even prevent these two mobs from spawning in your cavern by covering the entire floor with a material that mobs aren't able to spawn on, such as glass.

A harsh rule in surviving in the Nether is never to build a netherrack house as netherrack is highly flammable and ghasts will probably tear apart your house before you can even admire your beautiful netherrack mansion. (Think: Breaking netherrack with fists is quicker than punching stone.) Another harsh rule to follow is not to leave ANY gaps near the bottom of your house, or else fire will be able to come in if ghasts attack the ground around your house. It's strange, but ghasts seem to not be able to see through glass.

With the addition of nether bricks it is possible to build ghast-resistant structures of material that is readily available in the Nether. You can easily create nether bricks by smelting netherrack and then using the nether brick in a 2×2 square to make the block. 

Maybe build a full obsidian bunker and an iron door on the very front. Obsidian is very hard to retrieve, so build a shell out of stone or cobblestone and cover it steadily with obsidian. Don't use a nether portal for your door, because if you have nothing to reset it, you can be permanently trapped in the nether and can't come home! Although, you can use a fire charge to relight your portal.


