### Roller coaster
If you have enough resources, build a roller coaster out of rails. Add twists, turns, steep climbs and falls. Use booster rails to keep it running fast. This is a decent way to keep occupied while you have nothing else to do in the vast world of Minecraft. Useful in multiplayer: you can charge other players to ride. This could also be used as a monorail type of system. If you have a large base, this helps you get around it faster.

### Sky base
Create a base floating in the sky with no bridges or stairs connecting it to land. Of course, it doesn't have to be this way to build it! The no-connections idea can be accomplished with waterfalls, piston elevators, and nether portals. Add other sky islands nearby with bridges to connect them, and it'll be like you never left the ground! If you truly don't want any connections to land, even with the waterfalls and nether portals and elevators, gather up all the resources you'll need and seal yourself away in the sky. (But make sure you have a bed up there in case you die.) For extra entertainment, make a smaller island and plunge it into darkness, and watch mobs walk right off. To make it even more entertaining, place some arrow dispensers hooked up to pressure plates on the island, and even make signs all along the edge.

### Battle arena
The first thing you must do is find a monster spawner. Then seal off any extra entrances and place a door at the last remaining one. Maybe make the dungeon a little bigger, to provide for more fun and monster spawns. Finally, make a lobby with chests full of equipment (swords, bows and arrows), various helpful potions, and food. Now you can fight that specific mob whether for experience or drops for as long as you want! Include beds if it is a long way away from your base, so that if you die you won't have to walk for ages just to find it again, or simply make a minecart track to take you there quickly. If in multiplayer, add a lock on the lobby and another lobby where other players can pay you to fight that mob and rent equipment and various supplies. This is handy to build in abandoned mineshafts, wherever you find a cave spider spawner, but if you do that make sure you have plenty of milk buckets on hand. If you want to give your arena a bit of a twist you could add challenges, like a room where the mobs spawn over your head or one where you have to solve a puzzle while fighting the monsters.

### Railway
Make a long tunnel to fit from one to any amount of minecarts, then use minecarts with furnaces to propel the 'train'. You can also use powered rails, but for that you'll have to find gold and redstone. Be sure to add emergency chests to the side of the track and fill them with coal to power your minecart so you don't get stranded. Adding food and weapons in these chests is a good idea, in case you get stranded and have to fight some zombies to make it to your shelter. This is fun for multiplayer and single-player and you can go across the land quickly. Don't make your railway above ground to avoid constant attacks from creepers. However, covering the railway with blocks (such as you would make a house) can solve this problem. Alternatively, you could build a 3 block wide track that is elevated off the ground 2-45 blocks. This option provides great views but is not suitable for multiplayer. Make stations for your favorite landmarks (big mountains, your house, etc.).

### Minehouse
Make one of these if you have a long and deep mine and have to constantly run up and down long tunnels to drop off your bounty and sleep for the night. You need to make a small cottage in the middle of your mine, but digging out a room(s) in the side of a wall works fine as well. Adding a door, windows and plenty of light reduces the chance of being ambushed when you wake up in the morning. It must have a chest with food, picks, and shovels, as well as rare items that you don't want to lose while mining. Having multiple chests in a back room to store your excess dirt, gravel, cobblestone and ores is handy if your main chest is getting crowded and you'll be down in your mine for a while yet. A crafting table, multiple furnaces for quickly smelting items, and a bed are always good to have inside. You can also include an Enchantment Table for quick enchanting of tools and armor, especially if your favorite Efficiency IV/Silk Touch I diamond pick got burnt in the pit of lava that also stole some redstone.

### Pool
Make a pit of any shape or depth, but something that's 2 blocks deep is recommended, so that you don't sink to the bottom and drown. You could also place half slabs on the bottom of a two block deep pool so that you get the feeling that you're fully immersed in the water but without fear of drowning. Fill it with water. And now you've got your own pool. And if you're extra careful, you can make it with lava instead. Also it lights up that area of your base and looks good. You can add glowstone underwater as 'lights', or lava with glass over it to make it into a hot tub.

### Park square
Make fences around a 20×50×15 area, put a garden, and a wool statue with a stone base. You can use bone meal on the grass that makes up your square to make short grass and flowers appear. Adding pathways of blocks like stone brick shows players where they can go and adds a nice touch.

