### Atop a pillar
A pillar shelter from ground-based hostile mobs.
Build a tall 1×1 column under you, by pillar jumping: look straight down, jump up, and place one of your blocks in the space you've jumped up from. By doing this repeatedly, you can get high enough above the ground that ground-based mobs are unable to detect you. You can make the pillar out of dirt, wood planks (remember, 4 planks to a log), or even cobblestone, but avoid using sand or gravel to make your tower (see below).

Going 10 or 12 blocks up is usually enough, 16 is safer (skeleton range), and 20 or 30 is more certain. Zombies can track a player 30 blocks up, but they cannot reach the player. You can also use sneaking (holding Shift) to lean over the edge to place extra blocks as a ledge. Then you can put your crafting table (and soon, your furnace) on the ledge and work overnight. Remember to retrieve them before you come down! You can look around and see what's happening overnight, but try to avoid putting your crosshairs on an enderman.

If you haven't slept in 3 or more in-game days, beware of phantoms, which can reach you on a pillar. Otherwise, watch out for climbing spiders or even (unlikely) a spider jockey. To fend off spiders, you can break one of the blocks below your top block, or build a lip around the block you're standing on. You do either of these by crouching as above, and placing or breaking blocks. You cannot fall unless you let go of the shift key while leaning over the edge, or unless you are attacked, so don't do this if a spider is actually getting close to you (or if your tower is under 20 blocks and a skeleton is at the base). If a spider does climb the pillar, they're fairly unlikely to actually reach you, but, just in case, keep your stone sword in hand and whack them as soon as they come into reach, before they get up to you. Attacking them knocks them down, and they take damage from the fall.

Once it is light enough, and the undead have burned, simply dig out the blocks you're perched upon, until you're back on the ground. (Check for nearby creepers and other monsters first!) Don't just jump off your tower unless there's water below you – if you're high enough to avoid mob detection then you're high enough to take damage if you jump, or even die if you're 22 blocks or more up. Also keep an eye out for spiders, which can meet you halfway and knock you off the tower. If a creeper is hanging out at the base of your pillar, and you have more blocks, try going even higher—30, 40 blocks, or even up to cloud level. This makes monsters on the ground despawn far more quickly (because they are now farther away from you).

Do not use sand or gravel, because unlike most blocks, they are affected by gravity. You can't place a ledge with them, as they fall to the ground. However, you can put a dirt block on the side of a sand pillar, remains there even if the pillar doesn't. In particular, if a creeper does notice you, and blows up at the bottom of your pillar, the remaining sand you're standing on falls closer to the ground, taking you with it, and apparently, you were already low enough for monsters to notice you. Also, a passing enderman might pull a block out of your pillar. If you're really stuck and only have sand or gravel, make the pillar extra-tall, at least 20 blocks.

If you are in a desert with only sand and cacti all around, and have no other blocks available, don't use cacti (they'll kill you). If you have time, try to gather a lot of sand to make sandstone. If you got at least 40 or 50 sand (a full stack of 64 is better) by nightfall, you can make enough sandstone for a pillar, even without your crafting table: Press E for your inventory and crafting window, divide the sand among all four boxes of your crafting grid, and take the sandstone. (Use your pickaxe to take down the tower in the morning.) Unfortunately, you need 4 sand to get each block of sandstone.

### Up a tree
Shelter in a tree.
Find a single large tree and use dirt (or another non-valuable resource) to pillar up to top and stay up there until day arrives. Jungle, tall spruce, and large oak trees are recommended. Mobs cannot spot you if it is a large enough tree, and if they do, just take evasive action and move to the other side of the tree. Spiders could give you a problem, but hopefully, they won't see you. If the leaf canopy is big enough, you can actually dig up into the leaves, where monsters can't reach you. If all else fails, jump between treetops. When night's over, you can chop down the tree. Take care not to chop it down before you are done using it as a shelter, or the leaves may start to disappear, leaving you with nowhere to stand.

### Three block high hut
By making four three block high walls around you, you can simply hide from most mobs. Adding a roof (at the third block, that is 2 blocks high inside) protects against endermen (which can't fit) and spiders, which can otherwise climb the walls. You can make this out of almost anything—cobblestone is more secure, you can use wood planks if you have enough, but even dirt suffices. You need 13 blocks as a bare minimum (four 3-block high pillars around a 1×1 refuge), but two or three times that, or even a whole stack of 64, lets you build something you can actually move around in, and do some crafting and smelting overnight. (Note that you can use the crafting table and/or furnace as part of the walls.) Keep a block or few in your inventory as spares, in case of enderman theft (see below). You have two main risks: One is spiders, which can both sense you through the walls, and climb the walls. However, they can't fit through small holes, and if you make a roof with only a one-block hole, spiders can't get through (but you can still tell when day returns). The other hazard is if an enderman wanders by and takes a block out of your shelter. Wait for the enderman to wander away a bit, then replace the block, with one of your spares, if possible without letting your cursor cross the enderman (“looking at them”). When full daylight comes, mine a door in your wall, and exit. Keep a wary eye out for monsters, and in particular be prepared to run quickly away from creepers.

