### 1.9-1.12
1.9-1.12 speedruns are similar to tower runs done in 1.7, but are still extremely different. The tower in 1.9-1.12 speedruns are different that the one in 1.7, and this is because of the difficult enderman AI in 1.8+.  1.9-1.12 runs are much longer than pre 1.9 runs for this reason. If you want to study 1.9-1.12 tower splits, you can do so by searching up runs on YouTube, as the new tower isn't easy to explain. Other than the tower, 1.7 runs and 1.9-1.12 runs are extremely similar.

### 1.13-1.15
#### Classic strategies
This is the 1.14 strategy for obtaining enough pearls to locate and fill in the end portal. It utilizes a phenomenon in this version that lets you trade infinitely with villagers. It is risky because there's about a 30% chance for the villager not offering the pearl trade. However, if you are going for a record pace, it is extremely fast, faster than killing endermen, and is worth the risk. It is also the most common strategy among speedrunners. Use 1.14.4 for this, as other versions have bugs that can easily ruin your run.

First, you'll want to get into the habit of resetting for a good world. A good world for this strategy would include:
A desert (even better if you can find a desert pyramid nearby)
One of these: a savannah/frozen plains village, dark oak forest, or a jungle.
Any village, including the same savannah village.

If you find all 3, you have a great world! First, locate and enter the desert temple. Break the pressure plate so you don't set off the TNT, and then carefully mine and gather all 9 TNT. The chests often have good loot. Next, go into the nether and obtain enough blaze rods. You can also save time by mining a lot of gravel at the start, then mine it by the spawner when there aren't any blazes nearby. Get one more than you usually would. This is so you can make a brewing stand. Finally, exit the portal and head to the savannah village, dark oak forest, or jungle. Empty or remove enough items in your inventory (about 7-12 slots, depending on what you have), and then use the TNT to blow up the trees or village. If you are in a village, head to the houses with the most wood. Blow them up by placing a block in the center of the house, placing the TNT on top of it, and then blowing it up with a button so that the villagers don't connect the destruction to you and consequently offer worse trades. Gather the logs, stripped logs, and planks, and throw out anything from the houses you don't need. It is a good idea also to collect beds from the village, as beds decrease the time the end fight takes by an extreme amount.

If you use a dark oak forest or jungle, place the TNT closer to the top of the trees. The top area generally is more crowded with logs, letting more logs be blown up instead of dirt and grass. Collect at least 6 stacks of logs, which is about 24 stacks of planks, or 48 stacks of sticks. Once you have enough, head to the village, and then, if you are not on the second day yet, sleep in a bed. Find an unemployed (brown coat with no decorations) villager. Craft a fletching table, with 4 wood and 2 flints, and place it by that villager. When he becomes a fletcher, see if he has the sticks trade (32 sticks -> 1 emerald). If he does not, break the table, wait for it to become unemployed, and then place it again. Do this until he offers the stick to emerald trade.

When he does, empty some more slots in your inventory. If you do it right, this process is quick, so you do not have to worry about your items despawning. Turn a few logs into planks, then craft them into sticks. Trade with the villager quickly by holding the shift key, and spamming the spacebar and left-click. Do this over the slot where the villager sells the emeralds. This quickly trades your sticks for wood. Once you run out, craft more sticks and repeat. You probably have a few emeralds to spare. The best choices are arrows and bows — while you can make do without either, having at least half a stack of arrows and one bow is great. This helps to attack the dragon and shoot at the end crystals.

Next, find another unemployed villager. Craft a brewing stand with the extra blaze rod you got, and place it next to him. This turns him into a cleric, and must level him up by trading with him until he reaches the pearl trade. Be careful doing this, as you don't have enough emeralds to just blindly trade. First, buy 20 redstone from him (buy it 10 times). You don't need these, so discard them. Wait for pink particles to appear around him, then open his interface again. Next, buy 12 lapis lazuli. You don't need these either, so discard them. Wait for pink particles, then trade with him again. Buy 10 glowstone, and hope RNG is on your side. The villager has a 2/3, or about 67%, chance of unlocking their pearl trade at this point. Scroll down the trades. If he unlocked the bottles and scute trades, then you must do the entire process again. If you are going for WR pace, the run is dead, and you must restart. However, he most likely offers pearls. It is best to buy at least 10, and smartest to buy at least 12 because there is a good chance the eyes of ender can break on the way to the stronghold, and also, there is a high chance for the portal to be missing some pearls.

When you get to the end, always be sure to have at least 7 beds in your hotbar. Wait for the dragon to perch in the middle, and then place a block in front of its head, and behind it, place a bed. Blow up the beds (and possibly wait for the dragon to re-perch) and then stand in the end portal. If the dragon is flying around, shoot at it, or the end crystal it is using to heal itself. If it takes too long, you may want to (painfully) reset.

If you completed this process correctly, the TNT process should take about 3-5 minutes, and the trading process should take 2-4 minutes. Overall, this is an excellent choice for 1.14.4, because it should take about 5-9 minutes total.

