## Progression
Your time goal affects your choices and your style of play: if your goal is to complete the game in less than 30 minutes you don't have time to gather not strictly necessary resources such as armor, diamonds, etc.

One of your first decisions may be whether or not to mine. The fastest speedruns use lava on or near the surface, a bucket and water to build a nether portal, but this means you must travel through the nether and kill several blazes with minimal equipment. You may want to gather some basic items, then dig down to the lava level or below to find more iron, diamonds, gold, etc. Mining definitely increases your time, but it can also increase your survivability, up to and at the ender dragon. Anecdotal evidence shows that finding a nether fortress isn't affected by the Y level of the overworld portal.

Your first task is to get a full set of stone tools (the sword is optional and the hoe is useful only in 1.16). Get 4 logs from the nearest tree and craft a wooden pickaxe, then get enough cobblestone to craft the stone tools you need.

If you start near a village, hay bales are the best source of food (if you're playing a version after 1.14) as you can craft bread with them. In earlier versions you need cooked meat; if there are chickens, pigs, cows, or sheep in the area, kill some of those, but if you didn't light them on fire first, you may want to wait to cook the meat until you enter the nether or while fighting blazes.
If you're playing a version after 1.14 you might want to kill the iron golem to get some iron (4 ingots are needed to build a nether portal).
Get all the beds as they are useful to kill the ender dragon.

If you haven't spotted any lava and you don't plan to mine, you may want to gather other materials, make food, get flint or complete other necessary tasks while waiting for sunset. Once it starts to get dark, lava pools are much easier to spot from a height. Don't forget a blacksmith building has two lava source blocks if you happen to come across a smaller lava pool.

Make sure you have enough food and materials, then create a nether portal. Even if you have a diamond pickaxe, with some practice you can make a nether portal using a bucket, water and lava more quickly than mining 10 obsidian. Dig out a frame for the nether portal, if necessary, or pillar up 5-6 blocks and place your water source using the bucket. Now scoop up lava and place it next to the water to make obsidian. Keep adding lava until you have the 10 obsidian blocks in place to make the portal. If your lava makes cobblestone next to it instead of turning to obsidian, move the water source block until it's flowing next to the lava.

After you enter the nether you may want to set up a furnace to cook or smelt anything you didn't have time to before. Remember that if you leave a furnace in the overworld it stops smelting shortly after you enter the nether and resumes when you return.

Take note of the coordinates of your portal in case you get lost.

Make sure you thoroughly understand how nether fortresses are generated and search accordingly. You are more likely to find a fortress quickly if you head east or west until X 200/-200 and then search north or south. Listen and keep an eye out for blazes and wither skeletons. Magma cubes also spawn at a higher rate in a fortress, so if you see one it might indicate a fortress nearby. Turn up your render distance, if possible, to see further. Remember to watch and listen for endermen and kill any that you find. Dig a quick tunnel 2 blocks high and 2 blocks back, look at the enderman and kill it from just inside the tunnel. If you must travel far to find the fortress, use torches or overworld blocks, such as cobblestone, dirt, or leaves to mark your path back to the portal.

Once you find a nether fortress, you may want to search the interior first. The potential loot may help you survive the blazes and later parts of the game. A saddle is especially valuable later when you hunt endermen in the overworld. However, ultimately you want to find a blaze spawner. Ideally, you want a blaze spawner surrounded by netherrack so that you don't have to worry about blazes flying up or ghasts shooting at you. If the blaze spawner is out in the open, you may want build a quick roof and walls to keep the blazes in and protect yourself from other mobs. Building a 2 block high pillar near the spawner can also help to block some blaze's fireball attacks while you kill the others. You usually want to leave with 8 blaze rods, more if you plan on making a brewing stand. If so, don't forget to get nether warts before you leave the fortress. While gathering blaze rods, you may want to keep them in your hotbar so you can see how many you have.

Finish exploring the fortress to get any additional loot, if desired, and head back to your portal. Get any items from the furnace and portal back to the overworld.

Your next two priorities are finding the stronghold and gathering ender pearls. If you have already managed to get an ender pearl, convert your blaze rod to blaze powder and make an eye of ender. Use the eye of ender to get the general direction of the end portal and start heading in the direction, unless you are in a good area for hunting endermen and it's night. Ideally, use a triangulation calculator to minimize the number of pearls needed to find the stronghold. Write down your X and Z coordinates and the direction you are facing when looking at the eye of ender in the air (f). Two eyes of ender thrown from about 500 blocks apart in a radius around the stronghold provides an accurate location.

Remember that a saddle is valuable! The fastest way to hunt endermen is riding a horse in the desert or savannah. Endermen don't spawn in the rain and therefore the lack of rain in the desert and savannah biomes is helpful. These biomes are also fairly flat, making it easier to spot them. You can quickly ride far enough to reset the spawn, meaning you have many more chances for endermen to spawn, riding in a large circle around the biome.

Most speedruns in the 1.9-1.15 category are played in 1.14 to exploit the fact that villagers restock immediately. Ideally you should use the 9 TNT blocks hidden in desert temples to blow up the houses in a savanna village to get about 6 stacks of wood. Then you should craft the wood into sticks and trade them with fletchers, using the emeralds you get from trading with villagers to level up a cleric villager, which has a chance to trade ender pearls.

Once you reach the area of the stronghold, you can start digging, unless it's night and the surrounding area is good for hunting endermen. If not, dig a pit for your horse and head underground. You might want to dig straight down, or dig stairs since you likely want to return to the surface. Turn up your volume and turn on subtitles to help find silverfish, which spawn inside the end portal room. Strongholds can be vast, so keep track of your progress. Open wooden doors are a sign you have already been there, but use your pickaxe to remove iron doors, or else mine down the wall next to it. Use torches or other blocks to mark areas you have explored. Once you find the end portal, place any eyes of ender you already have and figure out how many more you need. Many players bring an extra ender pearl to teleport off the platform in the end, if necessary.

A valuable item is an enchanted book with the looting enchantment. These can be found in a few places, including libraries in a stronghold. If you find one and you have enough iron to make an anvil, this significantly increases the number of ender pearls you can gather.

Once you have found the end portal, return to the surface the way you came or by digging a new set of stairs. Keep hunting endermen until you have enough ender pearls. During the day you can hunt for more loot in the stronghold or the overworld, gather additional resources, such as snowballs, flint to make arrows, food and golden apples.

When you have enough ender pearls to make eyes of ender and complete the end portal frame, get ready to fight the ender dragon. You'll likely need good food, a water bucket, projectiles for the end crystals, blocks for pillaring up and a good weapon or several beds. Removing the end crystals is frequently more dangerous than killing the dragon. Once they are gone, killing the dragon isn't too difficult. Also, if you aren't using beds, remember that a stone axe deals more damage than netherite and diamond swords. (Netherite swords work too, but are rarer due to the fact you need ancient debris, and ancient debris is quite rare, especially when you need 4 of them. You'll also need a diamond sword too, as well as a diamond pickaxe to mine it.) Wait until the ender dragon is perched on the exit end portal and jumping to get critical hits. Critical hits can kill the ender dragon in 3-4 perches.

After the ender dragon is dead, jump through the exit portal and check your time. How did you do?

