#### 
This strategy is the most optimal way to play 1.15. Before you start the run, you want an island spawn with a shipwreck and an ocean monument nearby. First, you must break 3 logs with your fist. After breaking the logs, you need to craft the 3 logs into 12 wooden planks. Then, make a crafting table and 8 sticks. You should now have 4 wooden planks, which you use to make a wooden axe. After making the axe, break 3-9 more logs, and craft them into 12-36 planks. Use 5 of the planks to make a boat, and use 6 more to make 3 doors.

After you have finished crafting, go to a shipwreck to get iron. You need at least 11-14 iron and 2 emeralds. If you don't get those resources from the shipwreck, you must reset. After getting the resources, place down one of your doors for air, along with your crafting table. You can now craft an iron pickaxe, an iron axe, and an iron shovel with 7 of the iron. Next, craft 1-2 buckets with 3-6 iron. You should now have at least one iron left. If you have enough iron, you should craft a bit of iron armor, or a shield. Now, go to the ocean floor, place a door there, and mine some gravel for 3 flint. After you get the flint, craft a flint and steel. Break and collect your doors now if you haven't. Now, look for an ocean monument. When you see the monument, set your render distance to 2 chunks. That way, it's less likely for an elder guardian to inflict Mining Fatigue. Go to the back of the monument (the part of the monument with the small arches). Once you have gotten to the back of the monument, you use your doors to look for the area of the monument with the gold blocks. Once you have located it, break the gold blocks.

After getting the gold blocks, look for a village. Once you have found one, place down your crafting table and craft 2 fletching tables for trading. You also need to craft your gold blocks into 72 gold ingots. Use 60 of them for trading, and use the other 12 gold ingots from the monument to craft 4 golden axes. Now locate a forest and break 128 logs. Craft all of them into planks, and then craft them into 16 stacks of sticks. After reentering the village, you place down the fletching tables to turn 2 of the villagers into fletchers. If they do not sell you sticks, break the fletching table and then replace it. When the fletchers sell you sticks, trade 8 stacks of sticks to each fletcher, as the fletchers' stick trades can be used only 16 times per restock. Now, you should have at least 34 emeralds. You must now find a cleric. After finding the cleric, trade 10 of the 34 emeralds for redstone. Then, trade 24 of the gold to the cleric to level it up to Journeyman. The gold trade can be used only 12 times per restock. After the cleric restocks, trade the other 36 gold to it. The reason why you need to trade only 2 gold per emerald for the first restock and 3 per emerald for the second is because when a villager restocks, its price discounts go away. Now, the cleric should be Expert level. Trade your remaining emeralds to the cleric for ender pearls. There is only a 2/3 chance that the cleric sells ender pearls. If it doesn't, you must reset. Your IGT, or in game time, should be at around 6-8 minutes.

Now leave the village and locate an ocean ravine with magma in it. You then need to locate an upside-down L formation with the magma. To make the portal, you first need to break the bottom right block in the upside-down L. If the block below the magma turns into obsidian, place a door on it. If the block below doesn't turn into obsidian, reset. Now, place a block above the top left block of the upside-down L. Place 1 door to one side of the L and a block to the other side. You now need to break the top right block. Grab lava from inside the ravine, and make it into a nether portal shape. After finishing the nether portal, enter it. You should now grab some lava with your second bucket (if you have one). Now use the pie chart (Shift+F3) to locate a fortress. After you enter the fortress, look for a blaze spawner. Grab 6 blaze rods by killing blazes. After you finish grabbing the rods, re-enter the overworld through your previous portal. The rest of the run is similar to a 1.16 run.

### 
#### Bartering strategy
This strategy was shown to be extremely efficient, however it is heavily RNG dependent. This is practically the only way to get a good speedrun in the 1.16 update because villagers barely reset their trades in 1.15+. With extreme luck you can get enough blaze rods and enough pearls within a few minutes. One runner, Korbanoes, got enough pearls from just 5 gold, and set an extremely hard to beat record of 14 minutes and 56.8 seconds.

First, you want to obtain enough gold. If you found some in a shipwreck, desert temple, or other structure, you're on the right track. You don't need any gold from the overworld, however. Gold ore is found in the nether in 1.16, and you can also find gold ingots in nether fortresses and bastion remnants. All you have to do is find an adult piglin, and interact with gold in your hand or drop gold in front of it. If you are going for WR, you should drop a bunch of gold by the piglin, then kill blazes while it barters. Also, you should give it single digits of gold bars if you are going for pearls, unless you already have a lot. Trying to mine lots of gold consumes too much time. If you aren't going for WR, it is best to kill enough blazes, then barter. This is heavily based on RNG, so the amount of gold you need could range anywhere from 2 ingots to over a stack, or even more! It is best to mine gold as it barters and check on it periodically. You don't want to spend all your time mining half a stack of gold if he ends up giving you enough pearls in just a few gold. Don't just stand and wait either, because it goes both ways- you don't want to just stand there looking at the piglin, because then if he ends up taking a while to give you pearls, you could've saved time by mining some while he bartered.

Finally, even though this works in all versions, do this in 1.16.1. In other 1.16 versions, the loot tables are different, and it take almost forever to get gold.

This method isn't hard to mess up, and if you get lucky, you'll be in and out of the nether within 3-6 minutes with all of the items you'll need to get to the stronghold. Try to get beds on the way there, which shortens your end fight.

