#### Trading strategy
This is the other main but underused meta in pre-1.9 RSG speedrunning. It revolves around the concept that before 1.9, players could obtain eyes of ender from cleric villagers, which meant they did not have to kill endermen or blazes during the run, or even go to the Nether. This trade has since been patched by the developers of Minecraft, but it is still possible to roll back versions and play this strategy.

The main benefit of this strategy is that, unlike the tower strategy, this strategy is not pace locked, meaning that runs can go on extremely fast paces that are not possible on the tower strategy. However, it is an extremely luck-dependent strategy; so many things have to go right for a run to succeed.

Eliotex is the person who implemented this strategy into Any% RSG from Peaceful%, so check out his channel.

A good spawn for trading runs involves finding a village and a desert temple, preferably both close by. Loot the desert temple (its gold and rotten flesh, which is useful later, and if it doesn't, reset), then check the village. If it has a blacksmith, use the resources in it to your advantage. If it doesn't, find a nearby cave or ravine to mine and smelt iron in. You need three iron for a bucket, one iron for a flint and steel, two iron for shears, and up to three more iron for an axe. You need some form of high tier axe, so if you don't have diamonds or enough spare gold, you can use these iron ingots for your axe. You can gather more iron gear, such as a pickaxe or a sword, although they are not necessary.

Locate a librarian and a cleric, and trap both of them in a trading space (if you don't have either of these or are missing one, reset) . Trade any bookshelves you find in the village to the librarian, and trade your gold and rotten flesh one-by-one to the cleric for a 100% chance of unlocking the eye of ender trade.

Clerics sell an eye for 7-11 emeralds, 7 being perfect luck and 11 being extremely bad luck. Most runners watch for eye trades that require 7-9 emeralds and reset the run if the villager offers more than 9 emeralds. Librarians sell an emerald for 8-10 books.

The village and the temple offer just enough resources to unlock the eye of ender trade and buy a singular eye. Buy only one eye, as you can get the rest of the eyes later.

Using the one eye you have obtained from trading, start triangulating the position of the stronghold (a stronghold calculator called ContariaCalc can help with this). Once you have done so, dig down into the portal room and insert the one eye you have gotten into the portal. Now look for the library rooms in the stronghold; they are big, rectangular rooms that contain bookshelves and string. Once you have found them, start mining the bookshelves. This is where the axe(s) come in handy; you must mine a lot of bookshelves for the trading phase of the run. To deduce the amount of bookshelves you need to break to get all the books, recall the amount of eyes you need to fill the portal, multiply that by the number of emeralds you need for one eye, multiply the result of that by the number of books needed per emerald, then divide all of this by three (bookshelves drop three books upon breaking). This can be represented by the equation peb/3, where:

- pstands for the number of eyes needed to complete the rest of the portal.
- estands for the number of emeralds needed to buy one eye from the cleric.
- bstands for the number of books needed to buy one emerald from the librarian.

Once you have all the books, head back to the portal room to build a nether portal from the lava. Once you have done so, you can perform a method called instant-travel (invented by Eliotex), which lets you travel instantly back to the village and cover a large amount of distance at once. Ignite a piece of TNT as you enter the portal, wait a second in the Nether, then go back into the portal. With any luck, the portal should take you near the village. Don't wait too long to light the TNT, as once you enter the Nether, everything in the Overworld is unloaded after a few seconds. This means that the TNT may not explode in time and going through the portal takes you back to the stronghold (and kills you from the TNT).

Now, begin the process of preparing for the end fight. Trade all the books with the librarian for emeralds, and trade all the emeralds with the cleric for eyes of ender. If you happen to have spare emeralds, trade them with other villagers in the village for useful items. For example, a bow from a fletcher is useful for blowing up crystals in the end fight. (Refer to this chart to know what items are useful and what aren't: https://web.archive.org/web/20220904231334/https://i.imgur.com/BVB8Eby.png.) During the periods in which you are not trading with villagers, shear sheep for wool for beds (it's wisest to have at least 6-7 beds for the dragon fight); kill chicken for feathers, mine wood for sticks, mine gravel for flint, and use the feathers, sticks, and flint to make arrows; craft a bow; and kill animals for food by lighting them on fire with a flint and steel and then killing them.

Now, it is time to head back to the stronghold. Head back to the nether portal near the village, then ignite a TNT as you walk into the portal. Again, don't wait too long to ignite the TNT or it doesn't explode and the strategy fails. Then, wait a second in the Nether, and head back into the portal. With any luck, you should end up in or near the stronghold, and possibly even in the portal room where you made your first nether portal. Place the eyes of ender into the frame and hop into the End.

End fights in 1.7.10/1.8.9 are completely different to End fights in 1.15.2/1.16.1. For starters, the fountain that is in the center of the island in later versions does not appear in earlier versions; they only appear when the Ender Dragon is defeated, and spawns when and where the Ender Dragon dies. Also, the dragon's attack routine is different and does not include perching (as there is no middle fountain), which makes one-cycling under normal circumstances impossible. Instead, runners use beds to blow up the dragon when it dives. There is also the strategy of using crystals to kill the dragon; however, this strategy is extremely risky in non-peaceful runs, and peaceful runs are a different category to pre-1.9 any% RSG, so peaceful mode is not allowed. Here is a tutorial on how to do pre-1.9 End fights.

You spawn either in an endstone cage or in the middle of the Void. The dragon charges at you upon entering the End. The endstone cage is dangerous because you often have no way to tell if the dragon is attacking you, but the Void is even more so because the dragon can knock you off the platform, instantly killing your run. If you are in an endstone cage, wait for the dragon to charge, then dig up. If you are above the Void and you see the dragon charging at you, shoot at it with your bow and arrows to make it go away. Then bridge or pearl for the island.

Even if you are running the same seed every time, the End is always different per world. Every End (even on a set seed) has a randomized amount of crystal pillars that are a random height and width. They are always a randomized distance from the center of the island and are always randomly positioned in the island at a random distance from two other pillars. Given the randomness of pre-1.9 Ends, it can sometimes be impossible to shoot all the crystals. Try your best to shoot all the crystals; if you can't, that just means that the dragon takes more time between attacks.

Wait for the dragon to charge at you. To make it more often to do so, shoot at the crystals it locks on to, and shoot the dragon directly. If it dives toward you at a steep angle, shoot at it or hit it to make it go away. If it comes at a good angle, place a block and a bed in front of you (the block reduces most of the damage you take from the bed) and right click the bed as the dragon's head comes above it. (Make sure to stand behind a block or stand in front of the bed at eye level when exploding it. Minecraft renders most explosion damage at feet level, meaning if you are standing near or on the bed, you die or lose a lot of your health). If timed perfectly, the bed deals a massive amount of damage to the dragon, clearing a quarter to close to a third of its health bar at best. Keep doing this until the dragon is dead or you don't have beds (in which case shoot the dragon and hit it when it dives or use crystals if you know how). When you kill the dragon, locate the position of the fountain, then jump into it.

Congratulations! You speedran Minecraft with one of the most RNG-dependent strategies to exist in Minecraft speedrunning history!

