#### Cobblestone
Using iron that you have found in chests and got from killing zombies, make a bucket. If you don't have enough, go searching more chests for more, or if all else fails, kill more zombies until you have at least three iron ingots. Go to a village and take water from the well and lava from the smithy to make a cobblestone generator. Now you have a renewable source of wood and cobblestone. Dig for dirt, and smelt logs in a furnace to make charcoal for torches, and you'll have everything you need. Your next step is getting renewable iron.

#### Iron
Now it's time to move out of the village. Make yourself a home that is a short distance from the village to keep it safe from the occasional iron golem, and it is advised to have a small doorway so that in the event of a large group of slimes getting inside the outer gate, so they cannot get inside the actual building. Build an outer moat 3 blocks wide to capture slimes and other mobs. A dry moat works, as you can kill the mobs in it. Be sure to make it large enough for big slimes. Make sure to include a variety of farms in your house, such as (wheat, melons, trees, cobblestone, and cows) to make the need for a risky venture to a village unheeded.
You can also work on an iron golem farm, using one of several methods. Make it big enough to spawn several at a time for a more effective trap. At first, it may seem like a good idea to just kill them, but this is dangerous and time-consuming, so in the long run, it is better to make a trap to kill them. There are a variety of ways to do this; see the iron golem page for more detail. Once this is completed, you can sit back for a while until you have enough iron for a full suit of armor and all tools.
Before you can move on to the Nether, you need at least ten obsidian. If you don't have this, go exploring more nearby or not-so-nearby villages for it. Press F3 and write down your coordinates, or make a compass by trading for one or with redstone and iron ingots. If possible, get 4 extra obsidian and at least 2 diamonds so you can make an enchantment table. You can save diamonds by buying your diamond sword and other tools from a blacksmith villager. Surround your enchantment table with bookshelves from the libraries, and with experience gathered from slimes or mobs at night, it is possible to reach very high level enchantments. However, you need lapis lazuli, which you can get from cleric villagers. Use this to your advantage.

#### Other
Another way to find wood is by dismantling pillager outposts, specifically the watchtower and the logs (only if structure generates a pile of dark oak logs). However, this way is dangerous for the early game, due that the outposts are heavily guarded by pillagers who are armed with crossbows, and also can respawn indefinitely around the structure, even when the structure is completely destroyed. On the other hand, pillager outposts also contain a chest with valuable loot and a massive amount of wood in the structure. When finding pillager outposts, look out to see if there are any trapped iron golems in cages. Free them, and these golems help fight against pillagers, if you're lucky enough to get iron from the chest, heal the iron golems periodically to keep them alive, otherwise, you'll need 36 iron ingots and a carved pumpkin (which is inaccessible). If you find a tent, utilize it for cover from arrows shot by pillagers. Also, never kill outpost captains (unless you want a challenge), but let them get killed by iron golems or from arrows shot by other pillagers and you won't get bad omen. 

Killing the outpost captain causes the bad omen effect, which gets raised by the number of captains you kill. Pillager outposts usually spawn 1-3 pillager captains. During bad omen, if you enter a village, a raid occurs. A raid is an event where illagers come to a village to kill villagers and the player(s). So if you don't want a raid, you can drink milk to remove bad omen or stay outside the village for 100 minutes.

## Step 4 - Slimeproofing
Slimes are the superflat players worst nemesis, as they can quickly surround you, drive you mad by the sound, or create lag on lower-end computers.

Slime chunk proofing:
Slime chunk proofing is effective but also needs some preparation. You need a way to find the slime chunks. You could use the F3 screen to search and map out all of them, or you can use a mod to identify slime chunks by sight. To make slimes unable to spawn, use a shovel to turn all the ground in it to path blocks.

Covering with water:
When you cover everything in water, all you need is two buckets. Place one of them on the ground, and diagonally with block in between place the next. This generates new water source blocks, and you can refill your bucket directly from there.

Higher elevation: For this, you simply make a platform up in the sky (at least Y level 40) to live on, as slimes cannot spawn at this altitude.

## Step 5  - The Nether
Before venturing to the Nether, make sure you have a diamond sword, a full suit of armor (preferably iron or diamond), and of course, at least 10 obsidian. If you have 10 obsidian, you need 4 other blocks to use as placeholders, because you can't place blocks on the corners or edges of other blocks. It's also a good idea to make an enchantment table before the portal, as enchantments greatly help the player in the Nether.

To light the portal, you can place wood planks in front of the portal, and place lava nearby (but not in the portal), since blocks inside the frame obstruct the area for the portal blocks themselves. The lava sets the wood planks on fire, and spreads inside the frame, activating it.

Build the portal in your house if playing sedentary. Contrary to popular belief, ghasts do not spawn near a portal, so you are safe from them. Zombified piglins may be nearby, but they do not attack you unless provoked. Piglins are hostile unless you are wearing at least 1 piece of gold armor.

If you are being nomadic, portals pose more of a problem for you. The good news is, you have several options. If you have enough obsidian, you could make new portals as you move, to have continual access to the nether. Building the portal from the Nether saves you a lot of walking (as each block there is 8 blocks in the Overworld). Also, that way you always know where your portal is. To save obsidian, you can mine it from the corners of the portals that spawn, or go mine the whole portal and go back through to regenerate it. This creates renewable obsidian that you can use for more portals. Your other option is to gather lava from the Nether and turn it into obsidian where you are building your portal. However, this technique cannot be used in the Nether, as water evaporates, making obsidian impossible to create.

In the Nether, you can find many useful resources, but some have fewer uses than they do in non-superflat because other crafting ingredients are not available. Nether wart, magma cream, and ghast tears are not completely useless because of the trading system, which is the only way to get glass for potions beside killing witches which are almost as rare as endermen, as there is no sand unless you bought it from a wandering trader. Buy enough to make several bottles, but splash potions are wasteful as it is rather costly. For this reason, gunpowder is only useful for fire charges and TNT. Blaze rods can be moderately useful to make a brewing stand, for fueling it, potions, and fire charges. Glowstone is useful for decoration, potions, and redstone lamps by trading for redstone or glass. Gold can be crafted with traded redstone to make a clock, and you can still use it because its highly enchantable tools and golden apples.
If playing nomadic, you should have more than enough gold found from the chests. If sedentary, however, you may want to make a zombified piglin farm to obtain your gold. Zombified piglins are immune to lava, water cannot be placed, and cactus cannot be acquired unless you bought it from a wandering trader, so the best form of death is fall damage. If the piglins are almost dead and you deal the final hit, you get experience as well as a chance for a rare mob drop or two, out of a gold ingot, sword, or their worn armor. Build the trap out of cobblestone to protect it from ghasts, and make sure that it is protected from wild zombified piglins.

If you're really low on coal, kill some wither skeletons because they drop coal and bones, but watch out for blazes because they also spawn in nether fortresses.

The End can be accessed by finding a stronghold, they will generate in the sky so you'll need blocks.[1]

