## Step 3 - Making your choice
At this point, there are 2 paths you can take. You can choose to continue moving from village to village to amass valuable resources, or you can settle down in one place to farm. The advantage of being nomadic is that you can continue to acquire valuable, non-renewable resources throughout the game, but if you choose to be sedentary, you can have a much easier time building and farming, at the cost of limited rarer resources.

### Nomadic
When being nomadic in Superflat, you focus on nonrenewable, valuable resources that can be found in village chests and pillaged from the village. Early in the game, you can get far more diamonds, obsidian, and possibly gold than you would in a normal world. However, basic necessities such as wood, cobblestone, and iron can be hard to acquire in large amounts without settling down.
Dismantle the village as much as possible. Take all logs, cobblestone, torches, wool, wheat, and other useful resources. Take all wheat to trade, and don't bother replanting, because you are nomadic, never return to that village. Kill the village's iron golem by towering up 3 blocks so that you cannot be hit. Once you have dismantled the village, take shelter in a house for the night, and in the morning take everything with you and repeat the first step: wander until you find another village. It may be a good idea to keep moving in one direction so that you don't end up at villages you have previously visited. In the cartographer's chest, you may find some maps and compass which can be useful. Live like normal nomadic survival, except using resources from the villages you encounter.

When you have pillaged enough obsidian and diamond from the chests, create an enchantment table. Enchantments are quite easy to get because of the abundance of slimes. Fight zombies whenever you see them for their iron, and skeletons for arrows. Make a diamond sword if possible, or else an iron one. Your next step is to defeat the iron golem.

Whenever you find a big village with an iron golem, kill it if you can. Because there are no ores in a superflat world, this is the most effective way to obtain iron, the other finding it in chests and killing zombies, which drop it rarely. Dropping sand on the golem can sometimes kill it, but this is slow and tedious. If you have enough arrows, sniping them can be an effective tactic. Never sword fight a golem without armor, as it deals heavy damage and can kill you in two hits. Whatever method you choose, get enough iron for a full suit of armor and all tools. Enchant everything at least level one, and your armor, sword, and bow higher. Alternatively, you can surround it in blocks or trap it in a pit and drop sand on it to kill it without risking death. This is an easy way to kill them, even in the early game.

### Defending your nomadic village
Zombies can still do sieges as long as there's a way to get in. For protection purposes, surround the village with a 2 block high wall (to prevent skeletons attacking you and the iron golems), houses should not use wooden doors, as zombies break them on Hard mode. An iron/piston door with a lever or button is sufficient, but a pressure plate should not be used as mobs can activate them and get inside of the village.

Now you're ready for the next step: The Nether.

### Sedentary
If you chose to be sedentary, you focus on renewable resources. You also can focus more on trading, as you have the potential to produce large amounts of wheat in a farm. Buy some melon seeds from wandering traders as soon as possible and set up a melon farm, as melons provide one of the most useful food sources in the game and glistering melons for brewing potions. Apart from wheat, there are six major renewable resources that can be farmed in Superflat worlds. These are beetroots, carrots, potatoes, wood, cobblestone, and iron. Make tools from these as you acquire them. However, keep in mind that just because you have a resource doesn't mean that you have it renewably. Mining wood and cobblestone from the village eventually runs out, as do chests of iron. To continually acquire them while staying in your village, you must acquire them from iron golems (build a pillar at least 3 blocks high to avoid getting hurt), saplings, a cobblestone generator, and iron golems, respectively.

#### Wood
Choose a home from the village, and put a chest, bed, and crafting table in it. Avoid dismantling the houses too much for materials, as zombies can easily get inside and kill villagers. Feel free, however, to dismantle the corners of the house and unnecessary ceiling pieces. Also, the wood surrounding the farms can get you a lot of wood as well.
After finding shelter, your most important goal should be finding a sapling. They occur in the chests in the houses, if you didn't find one so you may have to look in several chests to find one. There is also another way to get saplings. You can buy from a wandering trader, who can sell you more types of saplings than oak. 
Write down the coordinates of your home, and continue out in a direction until you find a village. Take everything in its chests, return, and repeat until you have a sapling.
Plant the saplings near your home and wait (or use bones for bone meal, as saplings quickly grow into trees). As the tree decays if you take all the wood, chances are it'll drop more than one sapling (and an apple) — making wood plentiful. Then set up a home in the village.

Put fences around farms, to keep the slimes from trampling it, or make a farm inside of your house. Make a furnace from cobblestone you have gathered, so you can smelt logs into charcoal for torches. Light up the village; you don't want monsters everywhere. Place some torches near your tree farm so that they grow faster (or use bonemeal for a quicker process).
Now that you have a renewable source of wood, your next step is cobblestone.

