#### Legacy Console Editions
In (non-Bedrock) legacy console editions, there is no Customized or Buffet world type, but a Superflat world can be customized as an endless Desert Biome. By adjusting the layers it can also have most of the underground structure of a normal Minecraft world. It should be possible to replicate the underground structure of the Superflat Desert Preset of Java Edition.

### Extra challenging options
For (greatly) added challenge, turn off generation of all structures in the world creation customized settings. Another excellent challenge, not quite so difficult, is to turn off generation of just villages and temples, but leave the generation of pillager outposts, mineshafts and strongholds. These structures are much harder to exploit than villages and temples.

## Survival
### Survival options
Normally, if you spawn in a desert, you would try to find a more hospitable biome as soon as possible. If you have set yourself the challenge of desert only survival, that's not an option. 

In a desert only game, the easiest route to making progress is to find a village, desert pyramid, mineshaft, or pillager outpost. These structures have resources that are incredibly precious because they cannot be obtained anywhere else in the desert biome (you can also obtain resources from dungeons and strongholds, but dungeons are hard to reach and are not guaranteed to have the items you most need, and strongholds are far from an easy option, being an end-game related structure).

If you can't find a village or temple, mineshaft, or outpost, or if it takes a long time to find one, you need to take other approaches to survive while you explore.

### Immediate survival
Very few of the normal survival resources are available in the desert, particularly before you have found a village or temple. A different approach is needed for initial survival.

During your first day, collect dirt (if you see any; there is none in a Superflat Desert), some cacti, maybe sticks, and most importantly sand. You get sticks by breaking dead bushes with your hands. This is the only source of wood in the open desert, but unfortunately, you can only obtain sticks, not wood planks.  This also suffers from the problem that this is non-renewable.   Cacti are useful as defensive structures and defensive 'weapons'. Sand is your general building material. Dirt is the rarer, specialized building material, critical to building a roof or covered opening (e.g. a doorway). If you can't find dirt or are in a Superflat desert where dirt does not spawn, you need to craft a lot of sand into sandstone right away in order to build a secure shelter.



#### Shelter
A 5x5 "Day 1" desert house made mostly of sand, with part-sandstone roof, in a Superflat Preset Desert. Note the 2-deep 13x13 trench, "bridge" blocked by a cactus, "doors" of sand + cactus, "doors" and "windows" dug down an extra block outside to prevent zombie babies entering, cacti on roof to deter spiders while observing from the roof via a 1x1 "skylight" hole .
First, build a shelter mostly of sand blocks. Sand is the most abundant material. Dirt is more scarce, but you need either dirt or sandstone for your roof (since sand obeys gravity). First, identify a source of dirt blocks (except on Superflat). Then, pick a low sandhill in an otherwise flat area, flatten the sand off the hill by removing it and use those sand blocks to build your shelter house. You may want to leave a few 1×1 empty block spaces high in the walls as "windows" since it can be a long time before you are able to make glass or light sources. Make sure any windows are at least 2 blocks above the outside ground level, otherwise husk and zombie babies can enter through them. When you add the dirt or sandstone roof you may want to add a "skylight", though there is a risk of a mob coming through the hole (if you allow a path for mobs to walk on to your roof). Keep an area of the house that is not visible from any window, so you can hide there from the ranged attacks of skeletons, witches, and from creeper line of sight to avoid explosions. Because you have none of the normal tools or weapons, any hostile mob is a real threat to you.

Instead of blocking the doorway with a door (you don't have any way to make those) or a sand pillar, block it with a cactus. Either a 2-high cactus, or a 1-high cactus on top of a sand block. This allows you to see out, and also damages any mob coming up to your door. Make sure you have at least a 3×3 clear floor area in the house so that you can stay out of the activation range of creepers (or at least, one creeper). Maybe on your first night just make a 1×1 hole in the roof (too small for spiders to come through) and no 'windows' so you don't have to worry about creepers or ranged attacks. There is the possibility that an enderman could fall through the 1×1 hole, but if one does, just don't look at it until it goes away.

(Tunneling out of a trap is rarely an option in the desert because the sand collapses. For the same reason, it's problematic (but not impossible) to build lower levels under your house for storage, workspace, greater safety, or mining. See #Mining below for more information) 

If you can't find any dirt, you are in danger and in difficulty. Unlike in normal biomes, you can't just dig a hole and cover yourself to survive the first night (in pitch darkness). If you have time, craft some sandstone. If not, (in a Buffet world only) you could tunnel a short way into a stone cliff face (very slow, with your bare hands) to make a small cave, and then block the entrance with sand and/or cactus. Or find a naturally roofed cave, and block first the inside and then the outside of the cave with sand/cacti. Or dig a 1×1 wide or 1×2 wide hole (no wider) down into the sand and surround the hole with 4 cacti in a cross shape, diagonally adjacent to each other, as tall as possible. That makes a survival shelter that should get you through the night. In the morning, make finding dirt your top priority, and failing that, craft sandstone—more than you need immediately since you can't re-use it, it is destroyed when you break the block. In a Superflat desert, you must make sandstone; none of these alternatives (apart from the "cactus coffin") are available. 

In theory, a small house with 5×5 walls needs 32-34 sand for the walls, plus 25 dirt or sandstone for the roof. In practice, you can get away with less. You could use 10 blocks in a 3×3 pattern above the floor space (not above the walls), plus 1 block on the wall to anchor that 3×3 to the wall = 10 blocks. You could clip the 4 corners (but not the middle) off the 3×3 block and reduce it to 6 blocks, but if you go down the minimum blocks and are using sandstone, don't make a mistake! It takes a long time to break sandstone with your hands, and breaking it doesn't drop a sandstone block, the block just gets destroyed.

