## 
### Tools
As has been covered above, obtaining a pickaxe is perhaps your highest priority. Obtaining a hoe is also valuable. See the preceding discussions on this.

### Weapon crafting
As noted above you are unable to craft a weapon until you can either find wood planks for a crafting table or more likely locate one at a village. You then need to find cobblestone or, more likely, ingots or even diamonds to create weapons. Bear in mind that creating your first pickaxe is hugely more important than creating any weapon or any other tool. Creating a bucket for Lava is almost as important as a Pickaxe, and arguably even a Hoe is a higher priority than any weapon.

### Weapons and tools from mobs
Husks, zombies and skeletons sometimes wear armor and sometimes enchanted, which have a chance to dropped. You can get bows and arrows or even enchanted bow from skeletons, iron swords and iron shovels from husks or zombies or illagers. Of course, iron hoes or iron pickaxes would be much more useful. Likewise, pillager drops may provide you with a crossbow but neither they nor any other mob in an illager raid provides any useful tools in Java Edition. Illagers may also drop iron weapons, including—in Bedrock Edition (only)—possibly an iron pickaxe from a pillager. Witches may drop potions which could be useful in combat. Various mobs may drop Emeralds in Bedrock edition which can be traded for tools, weapons or armor with the correct type and level of the villager.

## Defending a village
The immediate problem when you have found your first village is that you are probably still weakly equipped, and the from the first night you stay in the village you risk drawing normal mob attacks on the villagers or (for a large village) causing a zombie siege on the village. So what you need to do is build a shelter near the village, but outside of its radius (at least 33 blocks), and go into the village only during the day. You might want to just collect food (remember to replant it) and the crafting table, and any tools, and leave. 

Unlike a normal game, it is extremely important to keep all the villagers alive, because, for many resources in the game, even basic ones, trading with villagers is your only way to obtain those resources in the desert biome.

If you want to stay in the village—which has many advantages—you need to secure the village and the villagers before you make your home there. Go in during the day each day to build up defenses, being sure to leave before dusk and get a good distance away. 

To secure the village, again you can use two-block-deep trenches or two-block-high sand walls, or a one-deep ditch next to a one-high wall—the fastest method if you are digging in sand. Check out the village and figure out the smallest trench/wall system that covers all the occupied houses in the village. Check for sandstone and cobblestone and plan to hug these regions of hard stone, not cross them with a ditch—breaking rock takes too long by hand. Even if you have a precious pickaxe, it's too valuable to waste on this kind of activity. 

Ignore the unoccupied houses and farms at first. Leave them outside your walls or trenches initially. Later, you can include these into your defensive system. 

Find every house with a bed and mark it (e.g. with sand and a cactus on top). Villagers live in it, so it's a priority for protection. Find the houses without beds; they are unoccupied houses. Take any torches or other light sources from inside or outside of the unoccupied houses and block (fill) the doorway with one or two sand blocks so no villager or mob can enter. Redistribute all the light sources in the village evenly so that the occupied houses at least are lit, and preferably the areas inside your wall/trench system are also lit. If you don't have enough torches, move the beds (and some doors) from some of the houses and add them to one central house. This should move the villagers to that central house, keeping them closer together and easier to protect. Alternatively, move all beds, light sources, and doors to the largest most central building to concentrate the villagers in one protected and easy-to-defend place. 

Then when all your defensive preparations are ready, do a last double-check of your perimeter and make sure there are no gaps a hostile mob can sneak through (except spiders probably, but they are the easiest to deal with). Then prepare to spend your first night in the village. Track all the villagers. When they are indoors, block them in by putting two blocks of sand in front of the door. Make sure you move a job block (see Tutorials/Village mechanics) inside the house (if you have traded with the villagers already, you may want to try to keep them with their job, so as not to reset any leveling). Also, put two blocks on either side of the door to stop mobs from attacking on the diagonal. Also, put an inner wall of sand 2 high inside the building to keep villagers going next to the walls and being attacked by mobs "through" the walls. 

This should keep them safe until morning. However, villagers are stupid; they go outside while hostile mobs are still alive. Desert villagers also seem completely oblivious to the fact that Husks roam freely in the daytime. Because of this stupidity you probably need to keep all the villagers imprisoned for their own protection in one main building. Make yourself a little room in the building so you can go in there to trade with them without them all escaping. It really is for their own good!

