### Trading with Villagers
Once you have found a farmer villager, your survival has now been made much easier. You now have the ability to get emeralds, allowing you to progress further into the game. However, you may need to farm some more, as you need a lot of emeralds for the various trades you need to make. Once you think you have enough emeralds, it is now time to find other villagers, most importantly the armorer, the toolsmith, the weaponsmith, and the fletcher. The world outside of villages and your temporary houses on your search for villages is still a very dangerous place, and it may be wise to get some protection and means of defense against mobs such as creepers and skeletons. 

By trading with villagers, you can get some important tools and weapons without having to craft. The armorer provides the necessary armor for protection, with various enchantments as well, the weaponsmith provides handheld close-range weapons such as the sword and the axe, and the fletcher provides bows and arrows. Meanwhile, the toolsmith provides a pickaxe and shovel, useful for breaking and gathering more blocks. You can also get items from the shepherd, the librarian, and the leatherworker villagers if you wish to. If you find that a particular type of villager is not available at the village where you found your farmer villager, you need to go to other villages that you have either visited previously or new villages in order to find the villager you wish to trade with.

It was possible before 18w06a to trade with a cleric for gold ingots, but now it is no longer possible, as furnace recipes have been added to the vanilla data pack, instead of being hardcoded into the game, which causes all furnace recipes to be disabled when the vanilla data pack is disabled. As a result, gold ingots are now impossible to get. Rotten Flesh is impossible to get because mob drops are disabled without the vanilla data pack. Hence, all trading with clerics is now impossible. 

### Entering the Nether
In order to enter the Nether, you must find or create at least ten obsidian blocks, to make the portal. Obsidian blocks are usually found in the Overworld, when water flows above a still block of lava, usually falling from a source block down to either an underground pool of lava or the natural layer of lava on the y-coordinate 11 and below in caves and ravines. If you find none, you may attempt to lead water to the lava by digging a tunnel from a lake, a river, the ocean, or a single water source block to a lava pool or the natural layer of lava, as you have no method of directly transporting source blocks for buckets are unobtainable. 

Once you have created and mined the necessary obsidian for the nether portal, it is now time to open the portal. Although it is impossible to acquire a flint and steel in this world, a nether portal can be activated by any flame, including one spread from neighboring lit blocks and lava. Thus, build your portal by a lava source block, and wait until the random ticks allow the lava fire to spread to the portal and light it. Now you can enter the Nether. When going to the Nether, make sure you have the necessary food, tools, weapons, and armor. Most of these supplies can be acquired by trading with a villager.


