### Creating a village
Villages are places where you can trade with villagers to obtain more resources, such as food, tools, armor, etc. Surprisingly, it is still possible for the player to create villages, even when game-generated village structures are disabled.

Once you got the potions and golden apples, find two zombie villagers at night and cure them by throwing the potion at them and feeding the golden apple. Quickly block the zombie villager so it doesn't die before converting into a villager. 

Once you get two villagers, start by placing them in minecarts to keep them safe and build a building around them. Then, give them professions. Your first villager should be a fletcher with the stick to emerald trade. You can make a fletching table using 2 flint from gravel and 4 planks (nether wood works) Use the nether wood you gathered to make sticks and sell them to the fletcher. Your next villager should be a farmer with the bread trade and a carrot or potato trade. If you got a carrot or potato from a zombie, you can farm it and sell the excess crops. You can also buy bread for food and villager breeding. One emerald is 6 bread, which is enough to get 1 villager. Make more beds from wood planks and wool (from string). After you get more villagers, you can start to employ them. Each profession has its own trades and benefits.

- Armorer: You can buy iron and diamond armor from them. You can also buy a bell for the village, which increases wandering trader appearances. You can sell coal, iron, and lava, but those items are quite expensive until you have farms for them.
- Butcher: One of the most useful villagers. In order to trade, make sure the butcher has the rabbit stew trade at level one so you can spend your emeralds. The villager sells cooked porkchop and cooked chicken. Cooked chicken is the best deal because 8 cooked chickens restore 48 hunger while 5 cooked porkchops only restore 40 hunger. You don't need to level up the butcher because the Journeyman and Master trades are impossible to do.
- Cartographer: The Cartographer buys paper and glass panes. Glass panes are extremely easy to obtain once you have an auto smelter and a Efficiency 4 Shovel, which you can obtain later game. You can buy empty maps, item frames, banners, and globe pattern.
- Cleric: You can sell rotten flesh to clerics and buy redstone, lapis, glowstone, ender pearls, andbottles o' enchanting. You can also sell nether wart, glass bottles, and gold to clerics.
- Farmer: You can sell crops to the farmer. All crops are obtainable. You can get wheat seeds from wandering traders, carrot and potato from zombies, beetroot from end cities, and pumpkin and melon from dungeons. You can buy bread, pumpkin pie, apples, cookies, cake, suspicious stew, golden carrot and glistering melon slices.
- Fisherman: You can sell string, coal, fish, and boats. You can make fishing rod from spiders' string + sticks and boats from overworld wood, which you can get from saplings from wandering traders. You can buy buckets of fish, which allows you to get water. You can also buy campfires and fishing rods.
- Fletcher: You can sell sticks to the fletcher. If you cure it multiple times, you can get the 1 stick -> 1 emerald trade, which is extremely cheap and overpowered. Mining one log gives you 8 emeralds. You can also sell flint, string, feather, and tripwire hook, but it is not recommended because those items are more expensive. You can buy arrow, bow, crossbow, and tipped arrows.
- Leatherworker: This villager is useless as it sells leather armor at expensive prices. The saddle is also useless because you can only use it on striders. If you have a rabbit or hoglin farm, you can sell excess rabbit hide and leather.
- Librarian: Useful. It sells enchanted books, bookshelves, lanterns, glass, compass, clock, and name tag. It buys paper, books, ink sacs and book and quill. Librarians can be used to farm emeralds. The librarian must have the bookshelf trade and the book trade, so you most likely need two librarians. Cure the bookshelf librarian twice and the book librarian once. This reduces the prices to 1 emerald or 1 book. Buy bookshelves and break them without theSilk Touchenchantment to get the books. Sell the books to the villager with the book trade. For one bookshelf, you get 3 emeralds. Subtract the cost of the bookshelf and you get 2 free emeralds. Have multiple librarian villagers with those trades to get lots of free emeralds fast without the villagers locking their trades.
- Mason: Buys stone, diorite, andesite, and granite, which are the cheapest trades, especially if you zombify and cure the stone mason multiple times. You can buybricks,chiseled stone bricks,polished diorite,andesiteandgranite,dripstone blocks,terracotta,blocks of quartz, andquartz pillars.
- Shepherd: Shepherds buywoolanddye, but it is not recommended because those are extremely difficult to farm in a infinite desert and grass blocks are unobtainable in Superflat, which means no flowers. You can still get flowers from wandering trader, but it is expensive. The best use would be buying shears. You can also buy colored wool, carpets, beds, banners, and paintings.
- Toolsmith: You can buy stone, iron, and diamond tools as well as bells. You can sell coal, iron, and flint, but those are expensive.Neversell a diamond to a toolsmith for an emerald. It is not worth it. Just use sticks.
- Weaponsmith: You can buyiron axesandiron swords, anddiamond axesanddiamond swords. You can sell coal, iron, and flint, but those are expensive.Neversell a diamond to a weaponsmith for an emerald. It is not worth it. Just usesticks.

