### Iron equipment
Iron is one of the most important resources in Minecraft. Your first half-stack or so provides enough equipment to take on the world, but you need ongoing supplies to replace worn-out equipment. Get used to collecting, smelting, and stockpiling it, because you need to replace equipment, and the more you advance in the game, the more uses you'll have for iron.

Optimal iron usage depends on the local environment, but the first things you should make have this approximate order:

- Ashield. This requires several wood planks and a single iron ingot. Shields were introduced fairly recently, but have seriously changed the balance of power against mobs: You can use them to block skeleton's arrows and hold off most other mobs' attacks, including creeper explosions.
- An ironpickaxe, to mine more advanced ores (see below) as you encounter them, which are key to proceed through the game.
- An ironsword, to attack monsters much more effectively than a stone or wooden sword.
- Abucket. This lets you pick upwatersource blocks and place them elsewhere. This is a key ability for making a farm, and it lets you generally rearrange water in the landscape. You can remove or place waterfalls, create your own ponds and rivers, (useful forfishing), defend your base against creepers, and more complex purposes. You can also use it onlavaand milking cows.
- Iron armor, which gives you much more protection against monster attacks and most other damage. The full set requires 24 ingots. If you don't have that much yet, make the various pieces of your armor set as you get more, starting with the chestplate.
- At this point, you have used 33 ingots. If you have iron left, go on to makeshearsand a second bucket (to hold a second water source, milk a cow, or get a bit oflavaout of your way).
- Set aside half a stack or so (that is, 30-odd ingots) for when you need to replace some or all of your equipment.
- As you continue to gather iron, you can start switching over to iron tools for everyday work: An iron pickaxe, shovel or axe works faster and last longer than the stone tools. Extra buckets come in handy too.
- Once you have redstone, make a couple or fewcompasses(the extras are formaps).
- Eventually you can make ananvilfor 31 iron ingots.

### 
If you haven't already made a bed, you should get some wool to make one! This lets you set your spawn point someplace safe (and stocked with spare equipment), and also lets you skip past dangerous nights and storms. If you have spare iron to craft some shears or you have already crafted shears, you don't need to kill sheeps for wool, and you might get the wool you need from a single sheep by shearing it.

Once you get a compass, use it to locate the world spawn point, and build a shelter there (assuming your home isn't already in sight). Once you've done that, you can carry a spare bed with you as you explore, and skip nights and storms by sleeping in it and breaking it in the morning to carry along. This leaves you without a spawn point, but if you do die, you still have a shelter nearby when you respawn. Stock the shelter with spare equipment, and place a bed too, in case you respawn at night or during a storm. Then you can just go to sleep and fetch your items by daylight, if your items are less than 5 minutes away (they despawn after 5 minutes).

If your bed is "missing or obstructed" when you actually try to respawn, you'll lose your spawn point and go back to the default respawning behavior (random within 20 blocks of the world spawn point). This continues until you actually sleep in a bed again. If there is no place to stand (solid block, not glass, fences, slabs, etc.) when you try to respawn, your bed is considered "obstructed".

When trying to sleep, make sure it's either night-time or storming (not just rain), and there are no monsters around you. If there is a problem, you should get a status message explaining what's wrong.  You can't sleep if you are currently starving, poisoned or on fire. If trying to sleep at sundown, you may need to wait a few seconds for night to officially begin, and try again.

### Slabs and stairs
You can craft most kinds of stone, or any wooden planks, into slabs, stairs or ladders. Slabs are half-height blocks that can be placed in either the top or bottom half of a block space. A floor made of "bottom" slabs can help prevent monster spawns, as mobs can't spawn on bottom slabs, and individual bottom slabs can be used as an easy step up to the next level of blocks. A ceiling made of top slabs can give you a little extra headroom, and double as the floor for a level above.

Stairs, naturally, can let you move up and down an incline without jumping, which is much more convenient, and for an often used path, it can save a lot of food.

## Monsters
As you build up your equipment, you'll be able to fight the basic monsters more easily, and start to take on the more dangerous ones as well. A quick (and incomplete) list of the usual Overworld monsters:

- Zombiesyou know by now – individually they're slow and easy to defeat. However, if you're fighting them at night or underground, remember that they can summon more zombies when attacked in hard difficulty.Zombie villagersare a variation that can spawn naturally or whenvillagersare killed by zombies. They mostly drop rotten flesh, but can also drop a few bonus items: Acarrotorpotatofor farming, or even an occasionaliron ingot. As you continue to play, new zombies with weapons andarmorappear. Naturally these are more dangerous, but they also drop more experience, and sometimes they drop the weapons or armor, which may be enchanted. In deserts, you might meet thehuskvariant, which inflicts a dangerous status effect calledHungerand does not burn in sunlight. Watch out for the baby zombies, which are much faster.Drownedare the underwater variant, which can spawn with the deadlytridentbut can dropcopper. Avoid them until you have good protection, because three hits can kill you with minimal armor. In the rare case that a thunderstorm occurs and a pig is struck by lightning, it becomes azombified piglin. These are quick and powerful, but neutral, so they ignore you if you leave them alone.
- Skeletonsare dangerous because of their ranged attack; they mostly drop bones and arrows, but sometimes they drop their bow as well. Later they appear with armor (and enchanted bows), which they can also drop. The bones are useful not only for taming wolves, but for makingbone mealto use on crops to make them grow quickly (this is especially handy for multiplying that carrot or potato). During or after storms, be wary if you see a skeletal horse standing around – this is the rareskeleton horse trap, which can confront you with a whole squad of mounted and armored skeletons. In icy areas, you may meet the more dangerousstrayvariation, which afflicts you with slowness when you get hit by an arrow.
- Creepersare the iconic cute-but-deadly suicide bombers ofMinecraft. They drop gunpowder, which is mostly used for makingTNT. The safest way to kill them is to shoot them from a distance with arrows, but it is, in fact, possible to sprint up and hit them, sprint away, and repeat until they're dead. Note that water blocks the destructive aspect of their explosion, but not the damage — a creeper that explodes in water still damages you but not the landscape or your base (in Java Edition; in Bedrock Edition are not harmed). Once you have iron armor or better, their blasts are more survivable. (Point-blank range is still pushing your luck, because being thrown into the air after ending up on one heart often results in death.) Beware: In caves or ravines, they can drop in on you as you pass under them, and explodewithoutthe time delay.
- Spidersusually become peaceful during the day, but can still counterattack after you attack them. They have two special abilities: They can see you through walls, and they can alsoclimbthose walls (including fences, but not glass). They drop string, (used for bows, fishing rods, and more advanced crafting), and sometimes spider eyes (not useful until you start brewing potions). Underground in mineshafts, you may encountercave spiders, smaller but more dangerous because they canpoisonyou (not to mention slipping through small openings).
- Slimesare found in swamps and occasionally underground. Theslimeballsthey drop let you craft a number of useful items, especiallyleadsto capture animals and move them around. From their biggest forms, they split into smaller versions when killed, so watch out for being mobbed by them. They can be more powerful than most players give them credit for.
- Endermendon't attack unless you meet their eyes or attack them, but once you do fight them, they're much more powerful (and faster) than other monsters. They sometimes dropender pearls, which you can use to teleport. They can also pick up some blocks and move them elsewhere, which can be inconvenient. Hint: being 3 blocks tall, they can't follow you under a low ceiling. Even a suspended 3×3 platform lets you stay out of reach while you attack them. Fences block them almost as well, though they might teleport to your side of the fence. They are also afraid of (and damaged by) water and rain.
- Witchesattack by throwing potions ofPoison, Slowness andHarming, and they can also drink potions to heal themselves or protect themselves from fire or drowning. They drop a variety of odd items, occasionally including the potion they were drinking. It is best to kill them with a bow and arrows, but they target you no matter how far away and start running toward you, healing as they go. Avoid villages during thunderstorms, too: if struck by lightning, villagers turn into witches!

