### Writing your to-do list
For the second day, your main objective is to get the lay of the land, locate resources, and plan out further construction. Look for at least the following things. Don't worry if you can't find all of them, right now you're just spotting the resources that are near your home:

- A place to growwheat:
	- Even before you have abucket, you cantillthe ground next to a river or lake, and plant whatever seeds you have to get an early start. A handful ofbreadgives you a lot more options.
	- Later, you'll want a basically flat area at least 12 blocks square, which you can reshape into completely flat. After fencing off a 9×9 square and placing water in the middle (that's what the bucket is for), you can till the square and make a farm to serve you well for most of the game. Watch out for nearby rises that could let monsters jump over your fence.
- A place to build a larger house or lair. There are many options here. The most popular options are to build on (more-or-less) flat ground, a roof over a valley, or wall off and occupy a handy cave. You need space for your enchanting table, crafting table, furnace, anvil, and several chests, and of course a secure place for your bed.
- Different kinds oftrees. Each kind of tree provideslogswith a different appearance, and the various trees have different characteristics for farming them (see the "Tree" article for full details). Collect the logs for crafting and building, and thesaplingsto grow your own.
- Keep an eye out for a pond or riverbank site where you can make afishingspot. Fishing requires time and (for safety) some preparation, but can get you a lot of resources, some of which are difficult to get otherwise. It's also an early way to get good-quality food. If you want some of the treasures you can get from fishing, make sure the bobber is in open water.
- One or more cave entrances, to get underground and start collectingiron oreandstonein quantity. If you spent your night in a cave, this might be easy, but for mining, you'll want a cave that heads deeper into the ground.
- Any of the variouscrops. You need to find each of these in the world before you can farm them, but then you'll have effectively unlimited supplies. See their respective pages for how to grow each of them, but several of them can share space in your wheat farm.
- Animals, for meat and other resources. Later you can build pens to breed and slaughter them; as with farming crops, you're looking for large, fairly-flat areas that you can fence off and otherwise defend against mobs. You can kill some of the animals now if you need more meat, but leave some of each type to later catch and breed. Once you do start collecting and breeding them, you must go further afield to catch more, as they do not spawn near your farm. (See theSpawnarticle for more details.) Note that deserts do not spawn any animals except the occasionalrabbit.

### Crops
- Wheatis the original crop, used to makebread,cake,cookies, andhay bales. Usewheat seedslure and breedchickens.Wheatitself does the same forcows andsheep. Wheat and hay bales are also used to healhorses andllamas, and to speed up their taming, although they do not attract these animals' attention.
- Sugar caneis important because it's needed to makepaper, and you may need a lot of that (along withleather, see below) forenchanting. Look for it at the edge of any body of water.
- Pumpkins can be scattered in the wild, or can be found intaigaandsnowy taiga‌[BE  only]villages. They can be used to makepumpkin pies, or be carved usingshearsintocarved pumpkins, which are used to craftjack o'lanterns, worn as a helmet to avoid aggravatingendermen, or used to build asnow golem.Pumpkin seedscan also be found in treasure chests, and occasionally offered bywandering traders if you haveemeralds.
- Carrots,potatoes andbeetroots are additional food crops, all of which are grown similarly to wheat (and can share space in your wheat farm). The first two are rarely dropped by slainzombies; only a single item is dropped, but by planting that one, you can multiply it until you have a respectable crop. All three can be found in the farms of avillage.
	- All three of these can be used to lure and breedpigs.
	- Carrots can also be used to lure and breedrabbits.
	- Carrots, once combined withgold nuggets intogolden carrots, can be used to breedhorses (see below).
- Cactusis mildly useful for barriers and traps, and is also the only renewable source forgreen dye. It is found only indeserts,badlands, and inflower pots inigloobasements.
- Melons are found injungles, though later you might be able to findmelon seedsin treasure chests, buy them, or find them insavannavillages.
- Cocoa beansare another jungle specialty. They're the only source ofbrown dye, and also allow you makecookies!
- Bamboois the newest addition to the jungle; if you can get hold of some, you can craft the remarkably usefulscaffoldingblocks, and breedpandas with them.

### Animals
In order of priority, note the locations of these animals (see their respective pages for full details).  If you have plenty of wood and/or stone, you can even throw up some corrals ahead of time for "whatever you bring back first".

- Chickens provideraw chicken, andfeathers. (You need those feathers to makearrows.) These are the first animals youcancapture andbreedwithseeds, which are obtainable before wheat or carrots. Chickens are especially easy to breed; besides breeding them with seeds, you can hatch them from eggs. With patience, you can start with a single captured chicken, breaking its eggs until you get a second chicken for normal breeding, or you can start withnochickens, but two or three stacks (16 each) of eggs!
- Cows provide bothraw beefandleather.Steakis one of the best foods in the game, and leather becomes important when you prepare forenchanting. A lot of leather is needed to make a complete enchanting setup. A live cow can also be milked, by right-clicking it with a bucket. Drinking a bucket of milk does not feed you, but it removes any status effects such as poison or food poisoning. (However, being on fire is not a status effect.)
- sheepprovideraw mutton, a fairly good-quality food, andwool. Wool is necessary for the all-important bed, but it is also useful for decorative uses such as carpets. Once you haveshears, you do not need to kill sheep for their wool, but you may want to keep a lot of them around to provide quantities of wool in a variety of colors. A warning: If there are wolves around, they hunt and kill any sheep in the area, so you may need to go far afield later to find surviving sheep.
- Wolves, unlike most other animals, are not bred for slaughter. Instead, you tame them with bones, after which they will follow and protect you.
- Pigs are the odd child here.Cooked porkchop(after cooking) is as nourishing as beef, but pigs provide no other resources besides the meat. Worse, luring and breeding them (or riding them) requires crops that you cannot get until you start killing zombies (or find a village). That said, if you can find asaddle, you can ride them when you do get carrots.
- Rabbits are even less useful than pigs: Their unreliable drops arecooked rabbitandrabbit hide. (Four hides make a piece of leather and six hides and two string can make bundles but those are their only uses.) You can lure and breed rabbits with carrots or dandelions.
- If near a village you may spotcats. If you are near or in a jungle, you may seeocelots, Once you begin fishing (or hunting fish), you can tame the cats or convince ocelots to stop running away from you. This can be helpful against creepers and phantoms, as both monsters flee from cats and ocelots. Cats can also give you little gifts in the morning, if you let them sleep with you in your bed.
- Horses can be tamed to ride, but to control them you need asaddle, and breeding them requires gold. (Again, see their page for full details.) Until you start finding underground treasure chests, your best bet to get a saddle is by fishing.
- Donkeys are a horse variant; like horses, they can be ridden but require a saddle to control; however, donkeys can also carry cargo.
- Llamas are tameable like horses and bred with hay (wheat). They can't be ridden (effectively), but they can carry cargo, and if you use aleadon one, the rest of the herd follow the leader to form a caravan. They do drop leather, and breeding them for strength provides reason to breed and cull a lot of them.

