### Searching for Landmarks
To avoid wasting valuable daylight time, search for certain landmarks, blocks, and formations. Some of the features in the world you may want to look for and mark are the following:

- Farm animals (cows,chickens,pigs,sheep): You'll want to usewheat,seedsorcarrotsto round up at least two of each kind you see, and fence them in for breeding. Later you can collect any you're missing from neighboring biomes. In particular, if there are wolves around, you want to round up some sheep before the wolves clear them out of the area. If the sounds that animals make annoy you, put your pens at least thirty blocks away from your shelter.
- WolvesorCats: If you see either of these around, tame a pair and breed them a bit so you'll have them if you need them. Cats can be tamed with raw fish, and wolves with bones. One way you will know if wolves are nearby is if you see drops of wool on the ground, as wolves attack sheep.
- Miscellaneous plants and seeds:
	- Each plant has different needs for farming; see theTutorials: Farminglist for full details.  In all cases, once you get a farm going, you'll have an effectively unlimited supply of that material.
	- Wheat seedscome from breaking tall grass. Even if you don't want to make a full farm yet, you can simply use ahoeto till some ground near water, and plant a few seeds for leading and breeding animals, and eventually makingbread. Just be careful not to jump on your seeds, as that will destroy them.
	- Sugar cane,pumpkins,melons,cactus, andcocoa plantscan all be found in appropriate biomes, and can be variously used to reproduce their kind.
	- Dungeon chests can provide several kinds of seeds.  Currently, in 1.16, they can provide pumpkin, melon, and beetroot seeds, but notcocoa beans.
	- Saplingsare mostly found when harvesting wood, but can also appear in flowerpots, found in villages or other structures.  Each tree has its own habits, each kind of wood has its own virtues.
- Cave entrances: Good places to findcoalandiron orenear the surface, and perhaps better stuff further down. They may lead into larger networks of caves. Make sure to be cautious when exploring these, see various tutorials for tips.
- Ravines and shafts: Make a waterfall with awater bucketto get down into these safely. These can give easier access to deep underground levels, where you can find gold, redstone, and even diamonds. Ravines especially are almost certain to open into more caves.
- Mountains: Besides being landmarks, mountains may contain caves, or sometimes even a path to a cave network.  However, note that caves above sea level (Y level 64) will contain no ores except coal.
- Fire: Fire is an indicator of either a burning mob or something flammable. The only 2 naturally occurring sources of fire arelightningorlava. (Undead will burn in the sun, but won't set other things afire.) If there isn't a thunderstorm going on and you happen to have a bucket, by all means, check it out. A conspicuous lack of trees in an otherwise heavily forested area (clearings in a jungle, for example) can indicate the same thing.
- Beaches: Beaches are a source ofwater,sand,clay,sugar cane, and the occasionalburied treasureor evenshipwreckorocean ruins. If you have any need of these a beach is a good place to look.
- Dungeons: Repeated appearances of one type ofmob, or collected drops of one type close together, may indicate adungeonnearby. Square, even, dry basins on the ground may also indicate a dungeon beneath.
	- The dungeon itself will have walls made of cobblestone, chests, and flooring includingmossy cobblestone.   One or two treasure chests will be within the room.
	- However, there is almost always amonster spawnerguarding the loot. This will spawn eitherskeletons,spiders, orzombies, one type per spawner.   By lighting the spawner instead of destroying it, and excavating and building around this, most dungeons can easily be converted intosmall mob farmsfor experience and drops.
	- If, when exploring amineshaft, you see a roomfullof cobwebs, watch out! This is probably a cave-spider spawner. so be very cautious when approaching.  Note that these aren't dungeons, and in particular they aren't enclosed in stone walls!  Between this and cave spiders' ability to squeeze through small spaces, most players are better off taking a pickaxe to the spawner rather than trying to farm it.  They do not have treasure chests.
	- You can also find treasure chests in mineshafts, or (eventually)strongholds.
- Floating Blocks: Sometimes off of high hills, a small clump ofdirtor stone can be seen floating in thesky. This was originally a glitch, which Notch decided not to fix. They're useful as landmarks.  You can make your own similar landmarks if you like.
- Lakes: These can be used as landmarks or handy water sources. Also useful if you are on fire, as stepping into water will put out the fire.
- If you happen to come across avillage, do take advantage of this. First of all, grab one of their beds and use it every night until you've thoroughly secured the village.
	- Your first priority should be to build a fence or wall around the village (to keep out wandering mobs), and place torches to light up the area, especially inside buildings.
	- You may also need to place stairs or blocks so that villagers can get into houses, due to bugs in village generation.  To protect village houses from zombies, it may help to break down the doors and replace them the other way around—that is, flush with the outside wall.
	- Likewise, fence off any cliffs, cave entrances, lava pools, or similar hazards, as villagers are very stupid and prone to killing themselves off or getting trapped in caves.
	- Even after doing this, you will need to defend the village from regular zombie intrusions, but lighting up and walling off the village will usually help minimize the spawns of other dangerous mobs, such as creepers.
	- Even before securing the village, you will find many resources within, ranging from crafting tables and pre-built farms to treasure chests with equipment and materials, sometimes even diamonds. All villages will have wheat, carrot, beetroot, and potato farms, and some have melon (desert and savanna village) or pumpkin (taiga and snowy taiga village) farms.
	- You'll also be able totradewith the villagers as well, setting up a few large farms of your own can help with that.

Another way you can locate biomes and generated structures is using ChunkBase. Go to seed map and type in your seed. In the features, deselect, then select biome, spawn point, and anything else you want to locate. Click on the structure icon (villager, witch, rail, eye of ender) to find the coordinates of that structure. Go there and loot the structure.

