### Cave exploration
Main article: Tutorials/Exploring_caverns
Cave exploration is pretty straightforward: you light up your way with torches, mine up ores as you see them (check ores and minerals) and kill enemies as you encounter them (see "Tutorials/Combat" for details). There are also some important techniques that might not be obvious to a new player, such as using waterfalls to descend into shafts, and/or swim back up from them. There are also many options for marking your trail and not getting lost. Also, note that sneaking (on PCs, the ⇧ Left Shift key by default) prevents you from falling over the edge of a block, which is useful if you are caving near a long drop, especially a drop into lava. Sometimes such caves end immediately, but often they continue into big cave systems. If they seem to end right away sometimes there is often a continuation about 2-8 blocks farther back and below the cave's end; mining in these directions (8 blocks back and down, exploring somewhat to the sides) may reveal a continuation. Digging away gravel or dirt can also expose cave extensions, but you may go through a few shovels that way. When exploring caves and mining underground, make sure to thoroughly light up the caves and tunnels as you go. If you don't do this, monsters can spawn in the darkness, even in places where you've already been through (meaning, they can come up behind you, or block your exit!).

If there are few nearby caves, or they seem too dangerous, you can explore more advanced mining techniques. Remember, if mining, never ever dig a single-block shaft straight down -- you are likely to fall into a deep monster-infested cave, if not into lava! You can, however, dig a mineshaft in a pattern, such that you always have a safe block to stand on as you mine a different block. Such patterns can range from a simple 2×1 pattern (standing in the middle so one of the blocks always supports you), to a 2×2 or larger staircase into the depths. A simple diagonal staircase works too. Just keep a careful eye out in case you break through into the top of a cave or lava pool. If you do dig a vertical mineshaft, bring a lot of ladders to get back up!

As you explore caves. you may run into dungeons or mineshafts. Don't get near these until you have at least full iron armor, sword, plus bow and arrows. Once you are properly equipped, these present a challenge, but also contain treasure chests with rare and valuable items.

### Other ores and minerals
You're unlikely to find these on your second day, but it's worth knowing a little about the more advanced ores. Gold, lapis lazuli, copper, and redstone are more specialized ores, found only in deeper parts of the caves. Diamond is the top-tier crafting material found in the Overworld, while emerald is used to trade with villagers. Lapis and copper can be mined with a stone pickaxe, but the remaining ores all need an iron pickaxe. Some key uses:

- Goldworks like iron, in that you mine the ore blocks and smelt them in a furnace to get ingots. Youcanmake tools and armor out of it, but don't: Their durability is abysmal, so they wear out quickly, although gold tools mine more efficiently than iron. For now, four gold ingots and a bit of redstone (see below), lets you make aclock. This key accessory lets you know the time of day, even when you're deep underground, which is helpful to avoid coming up to the surface to find a monster-filled night. Gold becomes useful later for making powered rails, golden apples, and netherite items.
- Lapis lazuliis used to craftblue dye. It is needed forenchanting. For now, if you happen to find some, mine a fewores(mining the ore block drops multiple) or so and save it for later, otherwise, don't worry too much about it.
- Redstoneis found quite deep, in fact in the same layers as diamond (watch out for lava). It is mostly used forredstone circuits; for now, you need only a few pieces, which a single block of ore can provide. Besides the above-mentioned clock, 4 iron ingots plus redstone lets you make acompass, to help you find your way around. Once you find and start growingsugar cane, you can make more compasses and craft them intomaps(paper+ compass) to keep track of your explorations and help avoid getting lost.
- Diamondis a rare mineral, probably the most-sought resource. It can be crafted into durable and quick tools and vastly superior armor. The ore is found at the lowest depths of the world, the bottom 15 layers of the map, and (again) requires an iron pickaxe to mine. Other guides give tips for finding and safely mining diamond, but for now just note that if you're seeing diamond ore, you're dangerously close to thelava"sea".
- Emeraldsare normally gained (and used) bytradingwith villagers and wandering traders, but scattered blocks ofemerald orecan also be found beneath mountainbiomes. Emerald ore is found at the same depths as gold ore and likewise requires an iron pickaxe. However, mining for the ore is dangerous and inefficient thanks to thesilverfishthat spawn at those depths in the mountains, and because you're likely to find only one.
- All these minerals including coal (but not charcoal) and iron, can be crafted into "storage blocks" at the crafting table, 9 pieces or ingots to a block. Youcanbuild with these blocks for show, but that risks losing them to a creeper blast. For now, just use them to save storage space if necessary.

## Crafting
### Repairing tools
Main article: Item Repair
To fix a tool, put two damaged tools of the same type and material in a grindstone or your crafting grid. This combines the two old items into a new item that is either unused, or has slightly more remaining uses than both the old items together. This applies to any tool that has durability, including swords and bows. Later you'll have enchanted tools and/or weapons, but don't use this method for those, you'll need an anvil to preserve the enchantments.

