#### Hard difficulty for beginners
Trying Minecraft for the first time in Hard difficulty is a bad idea for new players who may not have enough experience to do well in that difficulty. In it, mobs deal more damage, players can starve to death if they run out of food, certain mobs gain additional abilities, and some status effects last longer.

#### First-night exploration
Normally, the first nights are used to gather more resources, because the player is not well-equipped yet. The player should stay away from anything that can kill them during the beginning of the game, as the player does not have much in the way of resources such as armor, food, or weapons. For some experienced players, this is not a problem, as it provides them a challenge that they are experienced enough to handle. Some mobs are more difficult than others and the player should be extra careful about them (see Tutorials/Combat). Players playing on Peaceful mode do not have this problem. If the player plans on spending nights outside, certain biomes such as plains are safer than others such as forests and jungles as the player can see monsters coming from a distance. An area with lots of barriers can be dangerous because the player can easily be surprised by a hidden mob hiding behind a barrier, or be cornered by mobs. Shields should be used when exploring, as they can help you get out of situations where there are too many mobs to kill.

#### Forgetting melee weapons when caving
A good melee weapon, such as a sword or axe, is a player's best friend when in dangerous situations. One of the worst places to forget a melee weapon is in a cave. In underground places, players come across mobs in tight spaces, making ranged attacks difficult. It is important for the player to be able to kill mobs which are near the player.

#### Short walls
A wall is an excellent means of defending a certain area, either as a way to keep monsters out or for players to shoot enemies from afar without posing any danger to themselves. However, if a wall is designed incorrectly, spiders can easily scale the wall and make the wall far less effective. Spiders treat all vertical surfaces as ladders, allowing them to climb any wall with ease. However, they cannot pass through a block that is directly above them, so building an overhang on the outer side of a wall prevents spiders from climbing any further. The player should be careful to make walls tall enough because spiders can jump over walls shorter than three blocks tall. Note that enemy players can ride horses to jump up to 5 or 6 blocks tall, or wear elytra to fly over walls completely.

#### Gaps in shelters
The purpose of a shelter is to protect the player from the outside world. Leaving any sort of opening in that shelter defeats the purpose of having one, as monsters can walk right in and attack the player. The player should make sure that their house or fort is secure from all monster attacks, and only has entrances that can be defended easily. If the player wishes to see what is going on outside of their shelter while standing within, windows made out of glass or glass panes are always better than just punching a hole in the wall as an uncovered hole allows skeleton and pillager arrows to strike the player from outside of the house, and allow mobs to path find to the player. 

If a creeper sees a player next to such a hole, they can explode from the other side of the wall. The player can also use a collection of partially transparent blocks as windows such as wooden gates, stairs, slabs, or trapdoors as hostile mobs cannot see through them. If the players must have a hole and not a window, for instance, an arrow slit, a block such as stairs can be used. Two upside-down stairs facing toward each other in the wall leaves a space almost impossible to shoot through, making it safe from skeletons. A trapdoor also works great for this purpose, as the trapdoor can be flipped closed when the hole is not in use.

#### Creepers and sugar canes
It is difficult to identify a creeper hidden within sugar cane. By the time the player may recognize the threat, the creeper may already be about to explode. If the player desires a sugar cane farm near their house, make sure it is completely safe with the correct precautions to prevent mobs from spawning or wandering into the area. Sugar cane does have its uses, such as the fact that a player can hide from mobs within the middle of a 2-block tall sugar cane. This may help the player avoid dangerous mobs, but it is not a perfect method.

#### Iron golems
Iron golems can be a reliable source of iron, but getting this iron the wrong way may lead to major trouble. They only drop 3-5 iron ingots when they are killed while making it requires 4 iron blocks (36 pieces of iron). Attacking village iron golems is not a good idea either, as this causes them to become hostile toward the player. They are significantly stronger than the player in both health and damage, to the point of being able to kill a player in one hit. In addition, killing a village's iron golem lowers the player's popularity with a village by 5 points, note that this is for Bedrock Edition only (on Java the popularity is unaffected). If the player's popularity with the village drops to -15, iron golems become indefinitely hostile toward the player, until the player's village popularity is restored to a higher amount, as well as causing villagers to significantly increase their prices. However, if you do not want to trade, you can get on a 3-block tall tower and hit the iron golem from above. Make sure that there is no block for the iron golem to climb onto next to your pillar.

This does not mean players cannot harvest iron from iron golems, but it is safer and more efficient to construct an iron golem farm, where the iron golems (technically) are naturally spawned and are not killed directly by the player. It is just that the player must provide conditions for the "natural" spawning of iron golems.

