#### Hardcore mode for beginners
Hardcore mode should not be played by beginners. Once the player dies in Hardcore mode, the world becomes unplayable in survival. Players in Hardcore mode need to be extra careful to keep dangers away from them, such as by lighting up dark areas or preparing equipment for fights against mobs. The player should avoid dangerous situations, such as mining, if they do not have the proper tools. A player must be able to fight mobs properly. If the player really wants to dig, they may want to stay safe and build a quarry. It should be remembered in Hardcore mode that there is absolutely no point in safe-keeping important items from dangerous places because the player respawns on Spectator mode if they die and cannot collect their items. Players should not try Hardcore mode until they are familiar with the game mechanics by playing a few games on lower difficulties first.

#### Staying outside during thunderstorms
Thunderstorms are a particularly dangerous form of weather, as the sky darkens enough for monsters to spawn, even during the daytime. An unprepared player with few supplies can be killed quite easily if a thunderstorm begins and monsters start to spawn. While thunderstorms do not occur often, it is always a good idea for the player to make sure that they have enough supplies and weapons to survive should one happen. Additionally, a biome with extensive vegetation, such as a forest or jungle, is at additional risk during a thunderstorm, as a bolt of lightning could set trees ablaze and destroy large areas of forest. These bolts are also nearly lethal to the player if they are hit by one, so standing outside during a thunderstorm is always a risky prospect. And, if that was not bad enough, lightning bolts can transform pigs into zombified piglins, villagers into witches, and creepers into charged creepers. It also has a chance to spawn skeleton traps. Overall, thunderstorms are a dangerous situation. Note the player can sleep in a bed during a thunderstorm.

#### Missing too much sleep
If the player goes at least 3 nights without entering a bed, phantoms have chances to spawn high above the player. The more nights the player goes without sleep, the higher the chance for phantoms to spawn in greater numbers. To avoid phantoms, the player doesn't actually have to sleep through the night; they just have to enter a bed for any amount of time. However, if the player wants to obtain phantom membranes to repair an elytra or brew Slow Falling potions, it is necessary to avoid sleep.  If the player is seeking Phantom Membranes, they should be advanced enough to be able to fight off Phantoms efficiently. Another much easier way to obtain phantom membranes is by taming a cat. Put the cat in a minecart or boat, with a hopper and chest underneath. Make sure the cat is standing in the minecart/boat. This way, the cat gives you a gift every morning, which is put through a hopper into a chest. There is a chance to get phantom membranes from this.

### Concerning the Nether
#### Messing up in the Nether
The vast space inside the Nether, along with its environment, comes with many more risks and hazards than one would expect from the Overworld. The player should come well-prepared with a bow (preferably enchanted), at least two stacks of arrows, (or one arrow if the player has Infinity), enchanted iron/diamond armor, especially those with Fire protection, and an iron or diamond sword (preferably enchanted with Sharpness). However, unless the player is on Hardcore, they should leave their more valuable equipment such as diamond items at home: an inventory-incinerating death in lava is far more likely in the Nether than it is in the Overworld. The player should only bring along one or more iron pickaxes and an iron shovel (unless they plan to farm soul sand to plant nether wart in the Overworld) as tools, and torches, at least a stack of food, flint and steel for relighting the player's nether portal if something happens to it, and two to three stacks of cobblestone. If the player does not want to risk losing anything else, then they should not bring anything else. If the player is not playing on Hardcore mode, and wants to preview the Nether, they may want to equip some cheap weapons just in case the nether portal spawns in a lava ocean.

#### What not to do in the Nether
- Never dig straight down — this is even more important in the Nether, where one-block thick overhangs above lava or high drops are the rules, rather than the exception. It is best not to dig anywhere close to the player's feet with a diamond pickaxe with any level of efficiency, asnetherrackbreaks instantly with the said combination. The player should be careful on gravel as well—they may dig one block and discover they were standing on a gravel outcrop over a chasm or worse, thelavasea at the base of the Nether. Safe mining techniques work in the Nether, just as they do in the Overworld. If you have to dig straight down in the nether, at least bring feather falling boots, a totem of undying, and a fire resistance and/or slow falling potion to be safer.

- Do not carry valuable items in the Nether, unless the player has set up a secure Nether base. A diamond, netherite, or Efficiency-enchanted pickaxe can be more trouble than it is worth, as it instantly mines netherrack. The player can break several blocks with a single click. However, with netherite armor and tools, you may have a little breathing space if this kills you, as they do not burn in lava.

- Do not build structures out of anything weaker thaniron doors(5 blast resistance).Ghastscan destroy and possibly set fire to lesser materials.Nether bricksorcobblestone(both with 6 blast resistance) are good construction materials.

- Do not mineglowstoneunless it can be collected safely by constructing a cobblestone platform underneath it. Otherwise, aghastmight blow up both the player and the cluster or the glowstone may fall a large distance or into alavapool. Also, players should not go out of their way to find glowstone if they know where awitch hutis – the player can killwitchesevery so often to have a chance to get a little more glowstone. For those who have the patience, building a witch farm is worthwhile, and circumvents the danger of ghasts. But so long as the player is alert and has a Power I bow, they can kill Ghasts in one shot, making them much less dangerous.

A ghast firing at a player after entering the Nether.
- Do not plan on using a water bucket as a defense against death in a lava pool, as water does not work in the Nether. By using the water bucket, some particles appear, and the bucket becomes empty. The player should try to gain the necessary materials for Fire Resistancepotionsas soon as possible and use the potions as their defense instead.

- Do not attackzombified piglinswithout ample preparation for the consequences. For example, the player should be in an advantageous position or must only be near a few zombified piglins to fight them. Like wolves, nearby zombified piglins all become aggressive to the player if one is attacked. Zombified piglins hit harder and are faster than regular Zombies, so it is better to kill single, isolated zombified piglins unless the player is well-equipped and experienced enough to take on large groups. A building defensible against zombified piglins with holes for visibility is advisable. The player can knock them into lava as a defense method because lava slows them down and gives the player time to escape, but the player should remember that all Nether mobs, except piglins, piglin brutes, and hoglins, are immune to fire and lava. If the player is quick enough, they can pillar up a couple of blocks and attack the zombified piglins safely from the pillar. If the player wants to kill zombified piglins without angering them, powering TNT with a button does not anger them as it counts as environmental damage, and killing them in one hit does not either. This can be done using a Smite IV or higher diamond or netherite sword or axe and performing a critical hit, or using a potion of Strength.

- Do not get caught on fire. Fire cannot be easily extinguished in the nether, as water can be placed only incauldrons.‌[Java Edition  only]
- Do not right-click a bed in the Nether. If you do, it explodes. A player on an overhang when using bed could potentially fall into lava due to the blast. If the player dies in the Nether (when not in Hardcore mode), the player respawns in the Overworld, unless they have arespawn anchorwith at least one charge remaining. This can be a good thing, because in single-player or if no other players are near where the player died, and the player's spawn point is in the Overworld, the Nether chunk unloads and the player has plenty of time to re-equip and return to the Nether for their items. Seethis section.

- 
	- This functionality can be exploited to mineancient debrisefficiently, but is still messy due to the blocks around the explosion catching fire, and dangerous without high-grade armor enchanted with Protection or Blast Protection, as it requires close proximity to the bed. TNT is a safer option because it does not set blocks on fire or require the player to be near the explosion, and it is also stackable. It is recommended that players use buttons or other redstone components to set it off to avoid angering any neutral mobs that may be nearby.

