#### Disposing of less valuable items
Most players do not want their chests and inventory clogged up with less valuable items such as rotten flesh or seeds. However, players should consider before throwing away items of any value, even almost seemingly useless items, as the items may come in handy later in the game. 

For instance, rotten flesh is not only an efficient food for wolves, but it also makes a great emergency food for players. Also, if the player wants emeralds, they can use rotten flesh to trade with villagers for emeralds (clerics). Another example item is cobblestone. It can be used to create great emergency tools, smelted for experience points on demand, be crafted into many different things, or used as a useful, everyday building block. Seeds can be used to make bone meal in composters, or can be fed to chickens to breed them – providing a healthy source of experience points in the process. 

The player should always think about what they are throwing away before they do. No matter what, chests are cheap to craft.

#### Wasting experience
As the player's experience level rises past a certain point, the experience orbs the player collects count less toward the next level each time they level up. In other words, each level takes more and more experience to fill up. Since the player can never enchant anything at a level higher than 30, they should make sure to enchant as soon as possible as otherwise, the player wastes much of the experience that they gained after that point. Even worse, if the player dies, they lose the majority of their experience permanently. For example, when the player first defeats the ender dragon, they receive 12,000 experience points, which is enough to bring their experience level from zero up to level 68. This is a high amount of experience, but a large portion of this experience is wasted because so much of it is used to achieve higher experience levels.

To aid in efficiently using experience levels, the player should create means to have easy access to books and tools for enchanting. The player also needs bookshelves to gain access to high-level enchantments, something which is necessary to allow the player to not be forced to either spread low level enchants across cheap gear, put low level enchants on diamond armor and tools, or waste experience from going far past level 30 and possibly dying. 

Diamond is the best candidate for enchantment in most circumstances, so if the player has enough diamonds, it is always good to enchant diamond armor and tools first. Level 30 enchantments are usually the best since they usually output the highest levels of enchantments. Enchanting pickaxes early on can greatly help the player, as they could get the Fortune enchantment on their pickaxe which would increase their diamond output when they mine. If the player has run out of diamonds to make into gear and enchant and they do not want to waste their experience, a good candidate is a bow or a fishing rod. Since these items do not have tiers, the player is still making sure that they make the most out of their experience points. And then when they do get enough diamonds, they can use those. Netherite and gold-tier items, and iron tools, have a higher enchantability than diamond, though.

Lastly, if the player has an efficient mob grinder or villager trading hall with appropriate farms, there is no need to worry about efficiency of using experience points because the player gains plenty of experience points and can enchant all of the tools and armor needed, with enough patience. If the player uses these items well, their in-game activities become easier and efficient, so the player should make sure to make the most out of experience points.

#### Overloading enchantments
Try not to over-enchant tools and weapons, as over-enchanting them increases the risk of not being able to repair them. This is because the anvil has a limit of 39 levels for a task, so even if the player has enough levels, the anvil still declares the repair work "too expensive" if the task costs more than the anvil's limit. The player can avoid increasing anvil costs by not renaming items early on, or combining other items and enchanted books with the item. The player can circumvent issues with high anvil costs by enchanting tools with the Mending enchantment, removing the need to repair these tools using an anvil. If a player does not have access to mending books, they could also enchant items with Unbreaking to increase the time between needing to repair items in an anvil.

#### Throwing away tools
The player should try to avoid throwing away tools that they think they do not need anymore, as they might need these extra tools as backups, in case any of their tools break. For example, if the player brought only one pickaxe with them and it broke, the player would have to stop mining and may need to return to their base/home and get the supplies they need.

The exception to this is wooden tools. Wooden tools are slow, they break easily, and the player usually still has a few from their first day lying around. It is not a bad idea to get rid of those; however, the player could put them in an item frame as a trophy to remember they survived their first day or they can use those as fuels to smelt ores and cook food (pretty much conserving coals, for later use).
Also, stone tools are also slow, can only mine coal, iron ore, or lapis lazuli, and are usually only good for mining in bulk (or establishing a strip mining field).
Same goes for golden tools. They mine quickly and are easily enchanted, despite the extremely low durability, so if the player finds these as loot (or crafts them with an otherwise valuable resource), they may serve as work tools for mundane tasks such as mining stone, while the prized ones are saved until repaired, enchanted with Mending, upgraded (in the case of diamond), or replaced with higher-end ones.

