#### Not bringing blocks for mining
There are many risks linked to deep mining operations. Bringing a good supply of common blocks (e.g. cobblestone, dirt, etc.) provides material to overcome potential hazards such as lava pools, large cliffs, or mobs. Blocks may also be needed to be used when pillar jumping out of a cave. It is also essential to have log or wood on hand for crafting. Underground, wood generates only in mineshafts, which are rare.

#### Lava beneath ores
Sometimes diamond ore may be the only block between the player and death. The player should mine away all blocks around diamond ore found while mining. Care should be taken to completely remove or replace any lava around the diamond ore so the player is not in danger while extracting the diamonds. The same principle can be applied to any rare resource the player would not want to risk losing. More common materials such as dirt, gravel, and stone should be gathered above ground, where it is safe, and lava should be collected from the Nether, surface lava pools or an infinite lava generator as it is easier to use a bucket on source blocks in these places. The player should also remember to relight up areas after block light from any removed lava is gone.

#### The Void
Assuming the player has found a way to get past the bottom bedrock layer of the Nether or Overworld or has an active portal to the End, they have access to the void. However, jumping into the void results in death. Once the player falls below Y=-64‌[Bedrock Edition  only] or Y=-128‌[Java Edition  only], they rapidly suffer from void damage, for which there is no immunity even in Peaceful difficulty or Creative mode‌[Java Edition  only]. Each half-second below Y=-64‌[Bedrock Edition  only] or Y=-128‌[Java Edition  only] the player loses 4 health. To survive the void, the player would need Regeneration VIII or higher, which is inaccessible in survival. In addition, Totems of Undying cannot protect the player from death if they fall into the void. If the player dies in the void, they lose all of their items unless /gamerule keepInventory is set to true. Therefore, do not even think about jumping into the void under any circumstances. It’s one of the worst things you can do in the game. 

If you accidentally fall into the void, forcibly quit the game immediately, using Alt + F4 or ending task via Task Manager (unless you are playing on a server). Minecraft auto-saves once every 45 seconds, so unless you get unlucky, you find yourself right back where you started from. Triggering a crash on Java Edition by holding down F3 + C for 10 seconds would not work, because the manually-triggered debug crash saves your game before closing.

However, if you are in the End and run out of equipment while fighting the ender dragon, or you don’t know your way back to the end portal, then you could jump into the void to get back to the overworld. Before you do this, though, you should put all of the items including armors in an ender chest so that you can access them in the Overworld. Note that this makes you lose your Experience without the ability to recover it unless /gamerule keepInventory is set to true. It should be noted that the void can then be used to the player's advantage as a means to kill enemies.

#### Building nether portals too low
If the player builds a nether portal at levels near bedrock, they have a good chance of spawning on a small island near the lava ocean, meaning that shelter area may be limited to only a few blocks of space. Lava oceans usually leave a lot of room which can also hide ghasts trying to snipe the player from the lava. This area does leave the player vulnerable to the possibilities of death or entrapment, depending on whether the fireballs hit the player or the portal. It is recommended that players build their portals above Y-Level 20. Any expedition to the Nether should be taken with caution. Even worse, the player may spawn inside a nether cave, in which the player must dig their way out which is dangerous due to the chance of digging into lava pockets or lakes, or the player can spawn right above a lava ocean, meaning that when the player leaves the portal the player falls right into the lava and die. The player can also spawn inside a lava ocean, and if this happens, the lava destroys the nether portal and the player dies.

#### Gravity-affected blocks
The Efficiency enchantment can cause problems if the player carelessly mines. If the player drills around in sand or gravel while moving forward, the player may get trapped in the blocks and suffocate the player for a short time. The player should keep their distance with all gravity affected blocks while mining. Block glitches as described most often occurs on laggy servers or single-player worlds played on slower computers, so players are less likely to come across such issues while playing on fast computers or servers.

The player should note that death is extremely rare from this kind of scenario; a close call is far more likely. Another note worth taking is to be careful near desert ravines, as there are sometimes overhangs of sand with no sandstone beneath them. These blocks fall as soon as they are updated by a player placing or breaking a block next to the sand. This can result in the sand falling away and dropping the player down large heights. Be careful when building in the desert if you think there might be a ravine nearby.

#### Getting lost underground
One way the player can stay oriented in caves is to place torches on the walls on only a specific relative side (right or left). This makes it so the player can follow the torches back by keeping them on the opposite side of the cave that they originally place them (caves are known to split so the player knows which path leads to the surface). Another way to stay oriented is to place blocks as markers in intersecting cave areas. Players can easily get lost in a mineshaft as they have complicated, but repetitive structures. If a player gets lost underground they should mine back up to the surface in a safe manner.

