#### Breaking into a bastion without precautions
Gold armor is useful for avoiding piglin attacks, but if the player is to bring 1 piece of gold armor to raid a bastion, this results in a trade-off: less defenses depending on the armor piece in exchange for keeping piglins from attacking on sight. Of course, this trade-off also exists if the player wears gold armor around piglins normally, but the benefits are less likely to last long in a bastion. Piglin brutes are always hostile and deal high damage, and attacking one of these provokes all nearby piglins and brutes, no matter the tier of armor the player wears. In addition, hoglins, magma cube spawners, holes in the floor leading to deep drops, and lava at the bottom layers provide additional hazards depending on the type of bastion. It is advisable to wear a golden helmet or boots inside a bastion, which slightly reduce their protection (but may reduce more depending on the enchantments on the player's regular armor), which the player may trade out for a stronger piece if they think they may meet a piglin brute, but they must be careful doing so around normal piglins. It is recommended to wear boots with a high level of Feather Falling or placing a hay bale below the player's feet to reduce damage from falling through a hole in the floor, or placing a slime block (but this may bounce the player into another hazard) or bringing potions of slow falling to eliminate fall damage. A potion of fire resistance can help if the player finds themselves near the lava layers. A flint and steel is also recommended because piglins, piglin brutes and hoglins are not immune to fire. TNT can kill brutes in an emergency. For extracting items from chests, a hopper placed underneath pulls them out without attracting the piglins, but gilded blackstone often generates under bastion chests and angers piglins when broken. Pistons are recommended to pull it out before placing a hopper in its place.

### Being unprepared while traveling through the End
The End, with its barren wasteland, easy access to the item-destroying Void and deadly mobs, is extremely dangerous, and even more so if you bring the wrong equipment or run out mid-travel. Endermen are formidable enemies that can catch an unsuspecting player unawares if looked at accidentally, and especially if tunneling between islands, and can easily fling you into the Void. This would be catastrophic, considering that if you are in the End at all, you would be in your best armor. Always bring food, because the only source of food in this dimension is the somewhat hard-to-collect chorus fruit (although you can build farms there by bringing supplies from the Overworld), and you need food to heal sustainably, as well as sprinting and not starving. Bring plenty of materials—which endermen should not be able to pick up—to make bridges between islands, staircases and pillars to get to higher ground and avoid being hit by angry endermen and extra tools if you need them. As well as that, it would make returning much easier if you place a lodestone on the main End island, or the end gateway you came out of, so that you can align a compass to it and always be able to get back home. A pair of ender chests, one in the player's base and one in their inventory, can allow access to the items inside across dimensions, but a pickaxe with Silk Touch is required to pick it back up. Elytra and fireworks, if the player has them, are extremely useful for air travel between islands, unless the durability is low and the player has no means of repairing it.

## Wasted resources
These things not to do probably do not result in death if the player does decide to do them, but still wastes resources, sometimes valuable ones, unnecessarily.

### Involving tools and items
#### Using stone if iron is available
If a player is mining, they should bring at least one iron pickaxe with them, or the materials to make them and a crafting table. Mining stone with an iron pickaxe is faster than stone, it is also possible for a stone or wooden pickaxe to break in little time, shortening cave expeditions.

#### Mining cake
A cake does not drop, even when mined with a Silk Touch pickaxe, meaning placing it is final.

#### Logs for fuel
A log smelts the same amount of items as a plank (1.5 smelting operations). The player can craft 4 planks from 1 log, and then use the planks as fuel to get 6 smelting operations from one log.

In Bedrock Edition, a wooden slab burns the same amount as a log, and one can craft 3 logs into 12 planks and then into 24 slabs, giving 36 smelting operations in total, equivalent to 12 operations from one log.

Charcoal, which the player gets from smelting 1 log, smelts 8 items. Smelt logs to make a long lasting and efficient fuel source. One log split into planks (Java Edition) or slabs (Bedrock) can make enough fuel to smelt several more logs into charcoal, each of which provides 8 operations.

#### Crafting rabbit stew
Rabbit stew restores 10 hunger, making it seem like a great food source, as it restores more hunger than any other food that can be eaten all at once. However, the 3 edible ingredients (the cooked rabbit, baked potato, and carrot) combined restore more than 10 hunger. The carrot restores 3 hunger + the cooked rabbit meat restores 5 hunger + and the baked potato restores 5 hunger. 3 + 5 + 5 = 13 hunger. Therefore, crafting rabbit stew results in a net loss of 3 hunger, not counting the mushroom and the bowl used to craft it. Rabbits are also hard to catch, which wastes the resources on the stew. Plus, rabbit stew does not stack, so it unnecessarily consumes the player's inventory. This does not mean the player should never eat rabbit stew; it restores a lot of hunger, can be obtained from butcher villagers, and conserves up to 3 inventory slots as opposed to keeping separate ingredients.

