#### Mineshafts
Mineshafts are some of the most dangerous places in Minecraft. Have these points in mind:

- Cobwebsslow down the player, but notcave spiders. A careless player could end up stuck next to a cave spider or a cave spiderspawner. The fastest tool to break cobwebs is a set ofshears, or a water bucket, but aswordworks quite well, albeit you get less string compared to using a shear.
- Cobwebs appearing underwater in flooded mine shafts are extremely dangerous as the player may become trapped and drown. Always keep a sword, water bucket, or shears handy when traversing mineshafts.
- The player should be wary offire, as it sometimes generates near lava, which can set wooden structures on fire.
- Mobs can easily lurk behind one of the mineshaft's many corners. If the mineshaft intersects aravine, mobs may drop from a ledge high up in the ravines and attack any unsuspecting player. Be wary of mobs that may be in these blind spots.
- The player should keep themselves orientated to make exiting the shaft easy, as the maze-like corridors can be confusing and disorienting. One way to help find an exit is to make several exit points.
- There is no reason to drink milk when poisoned and under positive effects if the player has honey bottles, which they can drink to clear only the poison, leaving positive effects like night vision or regeneration active.

### Mobs
#### Looking at endermen
If the player's crosshair touches any part of the upper body of an enderman while within 64 blocks of it, it becomes aggressive toward the player. Endermen deal higher damage than most other Overworld mobs, and their teleportation abilities make them unpredictable. If the player provokes an enderman and is unprepared to continue to engage it, the player can use water to keep the enderman at bay. As of 1.14, the player can stand on a platform of scaffolding; endermen are rendered immobile (even while provoked) on scaffolding, a similar function to cobwebs.

If the player wants to hunt endermen without fear of provoking them prematurely, a player can wear a carved pumpkin instead of a helmet to prevent endermen from becoming hostile when looking at them. While this is an effective way to approach an enderman safely, the pumpkin also makes it more difficult to see other monsters and fight them, unless using third person camera view, though this too has its disadvantages if one is not accustomed to it. Another way to use a pumpkin as a helmet is to press F1 (Fn + F1 on Macs and other Laptops). However, this view hides the player's hand and hotbar. If the player's armor is of high quality, such as enchanted iron, diamond or netherite armor, a normal helmet may be used instead of a pumpkin as the boost in defensive armor may allow the player to fight more efficiently.

If the player does not have a carved pumpkin or high-quality armor with which to fight an enderman, a simple strategy is to build a small roof two blocks high, and take refuge under it while fighting the enderman. The player can enter a space that is two blocks high, but an enderman cannot, as they are three blocks tall. Hiding under the roof and striking any enderman with a sword is an easy way to dispatch the mob without taking damage, although most other mobs can still hurt the player. Alternatively, constructing a pillar four blocks high and attacking from the top of it produces roughly the same result, as an enderman cannot attack the player from that height. In all cases, the player should still be cautious of other wandering mobs, especially skeletons which can shoot players off of pillars.

If the player does end up provoking the enderman they can jump in a source of water nearby if there is one. If the player does not have a water source they can place a bucket of water in front of them. If all else fails then they should get their back up against a wall and punch the enderman from there.

#### Hugging creepers
The player should stay away from creepers as they can deal large amounts of damage from their explosion. The danger of a creeper to an individual player depends on the game's difficulty setting and how prepared defensively the player is. If the player hears the hissing sound of a creeper (which sounds similar to primed TNT) they should immediately back away. If a creeper surprises the player, the player's first goal should be to gain distance from the creeper. Any bit helps, as the player moves faster than a creeper even at walking speed. 

A creeper.
When fighting a creeper, the player should maintain distance. For players inexperienced with killing creepers with a sword, the best option is to use a bow, as this allows the player to kill creepers from beyond their explosion range. A creeper must get close to the player before exploding, enough so that the player can build a 5 block high pillar by jumping and placing a block underneath their feet to allow the player to safely shoot a creeper wandering around the base of the pillar without fear of the creeper exploding.

While fighting a creeper using melee attacks, the player can use a sprint attack by hitting the creeper while sprinting. This attack hits the creeper farther away than hitting it normally. Usually, this distance is enough to keep the creeper far enough that it doesn't explode, but if it hits a block while being knocked back by the player's attacks, the creeper may not be knocked back far enough. This or missing an attack on a creeper could leave the creeper close enough to explode. Using weapons with Knockback or Punch may help keep a creeper away from the player. Shields are effective against creepers.

When all else fails, the player could at least get the creeper to explode as far away from themselves as possible. Ironically, this is the easiest to do on the "Hard" difficulty setting, since creepers are less likely to cancel detonation from further distances in harder settings than easier ones. It is even possible in some situations to persuade a creeper to explode without causing any damage to the player at all. Their explosion causes damage to the environment unless the creeper is partially in water or lava. Thus, ideally, the player may want to move the creeper into the water before it explodes to decrease damage to the environment.

If the player hears a creeper's hiss behind them, they should not attempt to turn around and knock it away as it is completely/nearly impossible to kill a creeper at that point quickly enough to prevent the explosion. Sprinting away to attempt surviving the blast should be the player's highest priority, unless they have a shield, which can block the damage from the creeper explosion, in which case they should turn around and use it. 

In the worst case, if a player finds themselves without a shield or any way to flee away and a creeper begins hissing nearby, the player should try to place a solid block between them and the exploding creeper, right in front of the player's legs. If done correctly, this greatly reduces the explosion damage, although this tactic requires perfect timing and huge precision. Another way to survive is to immediately jump into a nearby hole, or to any space at least 1 block below the creeper to protect their low hitbox and reduce damage.

