#### Drinking base potions
These base potions (awkward, mundane, thick potions) have no effects on the player. The player instead consumes nether wart and other potion ingredients, which are all valuable for brewing useful potions. Therefore, if they happen to have made them, the player should avoid drinking awkward, mundane, and thick potions altogether. Drinking the latter two, however, empties bottles for reuse.

#### Brewing mundane or thick potions
In addition to having no effect on the player, mundane and thick potions cannot be brewed into anything. All useful potions, with the exception of Weakness, stem from the Awkward potion.

#### Saving space in inventory and chests
By conserving materials in their original forms, the player can save several slots of inventory and chest space. The player may also need to recollect the original item if they need more of it later. There are exceptions, such as how a player can "compress" 9 ingots into a single block and change the block straight back into 9 ingots. Note that nether wart blocks, packed ice, blue ice, partly or fully oxidized (before oxidation is removed) or cut copper blocks, and blocks of amethyst cannot be crafted back into their respective components.

#### Accidentally crafting a lot of items
If playing on a PC, holding Shift while crafting items crafts as many of that particular item as possible. If the player does this accidentally, they can end up wasting a lot of resources unnecessarily. For example, if the player has a lot of diamonds to craft a full set of diamond armor and they accidentally craft 10 diamond boots, the player would have wasted a large number of diamonds on armor they don't need.

#### Mining with the wrong tool
If the player does not have a high enough level pickaxe for the block they are mining, no item is dropped when the block is destroyed. A good indication of if the player is mining with the correct pickaxe is by the amount of time it takes for the block to be destroyed. If the player has been mining a block other than obsidian and ender chests for a long time, then the block likely drops no resources when destroyed and the player just loses the item they tried to mine. The player can just memorize which pickaxe is at least needed for each block over time.

The player should never break stone with their hand unless they absolutely have to break stone and do not have a pickaxe, as it takes longer to mine and does not drop anything.
- Using wood for wooden tools wastes wood as these tools are weak and not durable. For instance, wooden pickaxes cannot mine obsidian or any ores other than coal or nether gold ore. The player should only craft wood tools as needed to avoid wasting wood. A player starting out should make a wooden pickaxe, mine 19 stone blocks, and then they never again need the wooden pickaxe or any other wooden tool. The remaining stone can be used for a full set of stone tools and a furnace.
- The player should never usegoldentools. Even though they may be highly enchantable and mine quickly, they are the least durable of all the tiers of tools making them not worth using. Additionally, gold pickaxes cannot mine anything a wooden pickaxe cannot (including gold ore and blocks themselves), regardless of enchantments.
- Stonetoolsare satisfactory, but they are slow and should only be used early game when iron and diamond are not easily accessible. Though cheaper than iron and diamond, a stone pickaxe can only mine iron, lapis lazuli, coal, andcopper.
- Iron tools are the tier of tools that most players should be using. Iron is fairly common, so it isn’t hard to gather enough to make a full set of tools, and they are the third most durable of the tiers. They can mine all blocks and ores but not obsidian or ancient debris.
- Diamond tools are the tool that many late-game players should have because they are the second most durable and can mine all blocks except unbreakable blocks, but diamond is rare, so the player should think twice before making tools out of them. Unless the player has a lot of diamonds in hand, it is recommended that they only make a diamond pickaxe,enchanting table, diamond sword, and diamond armor in that order before making other diamond tools.
- Netherite tools and armor are the best available, but do not waste them. Netherite is crafted from diamond tools by finding the rare ancient debris in the Nether, smelting it into netherite scraps, then crafting four of these netherite scraps along with four golden ingots to create a netherite ingot. From there, combining the netherite ingot and the diamond tool in a smithing table creates a netherite tool, keeping all enchantments and durability. Netherite is faster (aside from gold), more powerful and more durable than anything else and is recommended for players in the deep late-game.

#### Wasting valuable equipment on low-value jobs
Diamond and netherite items last long enough that they are as likely to be lost to an unlucky death as they are to wear out, so the player must ask themselves when and where they are willing to risk their more valuable tools. The player should never craft iron (unless they have an iron farm), gold, diamond, or netherite hoes (unless you want to show off or get the Serious Dedication advancement, or want to make a massive crop farm), as the only gain is durability and faster mining for certain blocks (leaves, hay bales, sponges, nether wart blocks, warped wart blocks, etc. (All hoes till land instantly). In fact, golden tools have just over half the durability of a wooden tool.

- Irontools are faster than stone and have almost twice the durability of stone tools. Weapon damage is greater and armor can be created from this material. Iron ore is fairly common but not unlimited. Iron ingots can be infinitely acquired through an iron golem farm. These should be most player's go-to tools for traveling or adventuring.
- Diamondtools are for special missions where the player wants stuff without having to create large numbers of tools and work fast. However, the supply of diamonds is strictly limited, so the player should choose carefully how they use and risk them. Given that the player should try to get the most out of their diamond items, they should enchant their diamond tools with higher enchantments.
	- Shovelsalso get used up, but are much cheaper than other tools, only one diamond piece is consumed. If the player has many diamonds, an "eternal-shovel" may be a decent time-saver.
	- Swordsonly cost two diamonds and can give the player a key edge in fights, making them more worthwhile for everyday use by the player, but the player should also remember that the more expensive item also increases the possible cost if the player does die.
	- Diamondarmorshould be carefully thought about by the player, as the player could lose a high investment (24 diamonds for a full set of armor) if they die. Just with diamond swords, the player does have higher chances of survival while using these items which makes this a real decision.
	- A diamond hoe is mostly useless as it deals almost no extra damage compared to fists and there are no special enchantments for it. (however as of1.16hoes can receive the enchantments all other tools can receive.) Hoes also always till farmland instantly, making the only advantage of more expensive hoes being long durability and slightly faster breaking times on certain blocks. This decision should be weighed against the choice of using those same diamonds for another tool or a sword. Diamond hoes are only worth the value if obtained from a toolsmith villager because a diamond is far more valuable than 2 emeralds.
- Netheriteis more powerful and durable than diamond, but also much more expensive. Upgrading a single diamond item to netherite requires four pieces of ancient debris, which is extremely rare and difficult to get without blast-mining, and four gold ingots to craft a netherite ingot, added to the resources necessary to acquire the diamond item. Repairing the item withoutMendingcosts an additional 4 ancient debris and 4 gold ingots at least, and a matching item at most. Tools, weapons, and armor of this tier should be saved for difficult battles or large projects rather than worn away gradually on resource gathering or chores.

Of course, if a villager weaponsmith, toolsmith or armorer sells diamond tools, that makes diamond tools much less costly as the player can trade renewable resources for emeralds, and then those for iron and diamond tools.

The player should also remember that time is another valuable resource in Minecraft. Someone could easily hollow out a 10×10×10 area with wooden picks and wooden shovels, but it could be a waste of time when one has netherite tools to use on the same project. Using iron and stone tools to mine in order to conserve netherite takes away the point of gathering the diamonds, gold, and ancient debris in the first place, and most people do not want to spend their entire Minecraft experience digging with weak tools when they can finish digging quickly with powerful tools. If the player has a shorter time restriction for playing Minecraft, it may be more beneficial for the player to use up netherite to save time. However, if the player does not have many diamonds or much ancient debris, do not waste them on unnecessary tools, such as shovels and hoes. 

The Mending enchantment can make the use of high-end tools a much better proposition, especially when paired with Unbreaking and/or Fortune. A Mending pickaxe that is used to mine ores that give experience never breaks because the experience from the orbs repair it instantly. In this case, the durability from netherite also allows it to mine other stuff and it can always be taken to an experience farm for more repairing. A netherite sword with Mending can last forever when killing monsters, making the high damage from netherite a much better investment.  With the current villager job rules, it's possible to change the job of your villagers to one of your choice, and reset them until they have a desired trade, making it a lot easier to get the Mending enchantment.

