#### Bad wither spawning places
Withers can easily destroy any structure, except those made of indestructible blocks. If the player is planning to fight the wither, they should move far away from important land and buildings, such as their house and farms. Withers make huge explosions when spawned and shoot out wither skulls that explode, all of which cause destruction to the environment. In addition, the wither attacks any players as well as the majority of all mobs in the game, including villagers, animals, and even many hostile mobs. The player cannot stop the wither from dealing damage to the world. The wither still takes a large number of hits to be defeated even with the most powerful weapons and enchantments in the game and potions of strength. If a wither is summoned near the player's buildings, the buildings are destroyed. Even worse, if the player dies while fighting the wither and the wither destroys the bed they slept in, they respawn at the world spawn point, making it difficult for the player to return to base.

If the player spawns the wither in the Nether, the wither could destroy the floor, opening up holes to lava or large caverns and thereby increasing the chances of the player falling into lava or a pit, as well as the ceiling which could result in lava pouring down from above and possibly onto the player. If the player knows the placement of the soul sand and wither skeleton skulls, they may try using the top bedrock layer in the Nether to help trap the wither during the fight. (This is not that hard, but has disastrous consequences if done incorrectly.) Additionally, if the player defeats the wither near a lava ocean or lake, the nether star may drop into into the lava and be destroyed, leaving the player with no reward for the effort.

If the wither is spawned in the End, it could create holes in the end stone, increasing the chances of the player falling into the void. If the player spawns the wither during a fight with the ender dragon, the player has to deal with two bosses. The player may attempt to have the wither kill the ender dragon or distract endermen, but for most players, killing the ender dragon is easier without the wither being there as the wither often is more of a hassle to the player than the ender dragon. So, if the player is planning on fighting the wither in the End, they should do so after the ender dragon is defeated. In this case, battling the wither could make things easier for the player. Since there are a lot of endermen in the End, the wither focuses more on attacking the endermen than on attacking the player. Additionally, the endermen retaliate against the wither, thereby assisting the player in the fight. However, the player should be careful about spawning it near an end city because the wither flies up the end city to destroy the mobs there, which means the player likely must climb up the end city to reach the wither. Also, the player should make sure not to land the last hit on the wither near the edge of an island so that the nether star doesn’t fall into the void.

For most players, the Overworld is the most ideal dimension for summoning the wither. However, the player should still think carefully about where to fight it. It is usually easier to fight the wither in caves than it is to fight it above ground since the ceilings in the caves prevent it from flying high, making it easier to fight. The most effective strategy to fighting the wither is to create a long 1 by 2 hallway and a small 3 by 3 room to one side of it. The player should then summon the wither in the 3 by 3 room and then immediately back off into the hallway before it explodes. The player can then shoot the wither safely from the hallway because the wither cannot fit in the hallway and therefore cannot reach the player. Once the wither reaches half health, the player can then run forward and finish it off with a sword. A player using this tactic could defeat the wither easily even with iron armor, a little bit of food, and a few healing and strength potions.

#### Wooden doors on Hard difficulty
On Hard difficulty, zombies can break down wooden doors and attack the player while they are within their base. There are multiple ways to protect a wooden door from zombies in hard difficulty such as placing a block front of the door anytime they are not using it, using an alternative door (fence gates, iron doors, trapdoors, etc.), or placing a slab at the top of the front of the door. Another way to block zombies from doors is to place the door sideways, so when the door is open it closes off the doorway. The zombie's A.I. treats it as open and prevents the zombie from attempting to break it (instead of trying to walk through it). Tutorials/Traps has more ways to protect the player's door from zombies along with other threats such as players.

#### Knockback and skeletons
Using a sword enchanted with Knockback on a skeleton knocks it away and gives it more time to attack the player, making it harder to kill the skeleton. There are exceptions, such as when the skeleton could be knocked back into a position which kills it or removes from where it can harm the player, such as over a cliff. They would likely die from the fall, and if the water broke their fall then they would not be capable of attacking the player (if the cliff was high enough). Also, a player with a shield could protect themselves against its arrow if the player was using a sword enchanted with Knockback.

This is also true when attacking a drowned that is using a trident (a ranged weapon).

