### Breadcrumb trails
- Whether above ground or below, mark your routes in some way. Use torches on fence posts, blocks of colored wool, flowers or mushrooms, redstone, railway tracks, gravel pathways, lit netherrack, or anything else you please. Get used to placing torches only on the left cavern wall or the right, or always place them on the side of a block so that they are angled toward the exit. This way you know for sure which direction you came from. Particularly, put signposts at key junctions! The time saving given just by not going astray as you move about your world can be quite significant.

- If you get lost below ground, don't spend too much time trying to find your way back to familiar territory. You know where the surface is; it'sup. Just dig a stairway to the surface, where it is much easier to get your bearings. Do follow mining safety practice as always; don't dig vertically, and watch out for incursions of water, sand, gravel or lava on the way. Be aware of the time as well, and avoid breaching the surface at night if possible.

- One of the best ways to mark a path through a cave you are exploring is agreed on an in-out, left-right rule. Place your torches on the wall on the left side when you go in, and to find the way out, turn around, and the torches you placed on the left-hand wall are now on the right hand, and you can use the classic "right-hand rule" to navigate your way out. It's useful also for forking tunnels when you don't know which fork you had already taken.

### Cactus and sugar cane
- A quick way to clear or collectcactusorsugar caneis to destroy the bottom cactus/sugar cane block, at which point the entire plant collapses into retrievable items. Digging out the block below it works the same way.
- When farming, leaving the bottom-most cactus or sugar cane block un-harvested saves you the time needed to re-plant it. However, this is a little risky for cactus, as the remaining block may destroy the dropped items.
- For sugar cane only, temporarily blocking off the plants' water supply and then harvesting one plant can cause an entire row to collapse. Note that the exact behavior may depend on how the plants are arranged.
- For cactus, placing a block (like dirt or sand) next to the plant makes it drop. If they are arranged in a checkerboard pattern, you can harvest two or three plants at once this way. The block can also be placed higher, to harvest just the segments from the block's level upward.
- By lining sugar cane 'up' in a straight line and running while aiming slightly up at the second sugar cane block, you may harvest sugar cane quickly and efficiently. Aiming up ensures you do not destroy the base so that it may regrow.
- For cactus you can displace the sand underneath it with pistons, causing all cacti to drop down so you can farm entire sections of your cactus farm without breaking blocks.

### Clear plants and snow with water
A water bucket is useful for rapidly clearing snow, grain, mushrooms and some other (mainly plantable) items. Rather than clicking one by one on every block, pour a bucket of water over the area, and the water can clear over a hundred blocks in one operation and can be collected then reused. Beware, though: water also washes away redstone circuits.

### Clearing up lava
- Once you have collected (or blocked off) a lava source block, it can take a long time for the flowing lava to disappear. Using cheap blocks: dirt, cobblestone, flammable leaves or netherrack to mop up the remainder saves waiting for it to disappear naturally. Even one block replacing the highest level of the flow makes the rest vanishmuchmore quickly. You can also use torches to clean up lingering lava.
- Because digging with a shovel is quick and easy, you can carry sand or gravel, which sinks in lava and quenches it, stopping its flow.
- Flooding the flow with water converts the flowing lava to cobblestone, which can easily be mined away. This is not an option in the Nether, unfortunately, as normally water disappears instantly when placed. It is possible to place water in the nether only with cheats, such as using/setblockor mods.

### Concrete
- Instead of crafting concrete powder, turning it to concrete and then building, vertical walls can be made of concrete powder and then flushed with water.
- The fastest way to make concrete from powder is to hold a pickaxe in your main hand and concrete powder in your offhand, then place the powder next to a water source or flowing water block and hold both mouse buttons down. The process of placing the powder and breaking the concrete is automatic until the powder stack runs out. Arrange it so the water flows toward you, and collect all the broken concrete items.

### Crafting
- Particularly when away from the base collecting materials, don't clutter the inventory with unneeded items. The player should normally carry logs and possibly some coal and or iron, and then craft items such as extra tools, fences – even the crafting bench itself – only when you need them. This maximizes the space you have available for the items you are collecting. The main exception is torches, which are constantly used, so they should be made half a stack at a time whenever you have less than a dozen of them. Similarly, ladders may be needed in a hurry, so you might want to keep some handy. It may also be worth keeping a chest in inventory, in case you want to clear out your inventory in a hurry.
- Another crafting speedup is to always try to make round numbers of constantly-used items. For example, when making fences in, one log makes four planks, which makes eight sticks, which makes two fences with two sticks left over. It's usually better to make fences eight at a time (four recipes), which uses up exactly five logs without waste and without cluttering the inventory; or as an alternative, you could routinely make any spare planks or sticks into torches or any other frequently-used item. Similarly, make 24 ladders at a time, with seven logs. Even signs can be mass-produced with 13 logs (one goes to sticks, the rest to planks), but because signs stack to 16, this produces 11⁄2stacks. Fence gates cost exactly one log apiece, and their crafting recipe lets you doanynumber up to a stack quickly (by moving half-stacks six times). Boats can be resourcefully crafted in one of two ways: five logs make four boats on Java Edition, or seven logs on Bedrock Edition.
- When creating some large stone-type builds, it can be worth it to build a stonecutter table. A large cobblesstone stairscase costs less in raw matterials if the stairs are crafted via a stonecutter instead of the crafting table, thus saving time mining stone-type resources (cobble, deepslate, etc.)
- Pressing and holding shift while collecting outcome instantly puts all crafted items into your inventory. This is useful when crafting many items, but be careful when crafting unstackable or 16-stackable items. The inventory can also let the player quickly divide a stack among multiple slots. Pick up a stack of items, then click and drag across several inventory or crafting slots to divide the stack evenly between those slots or right-click and drag to place a single item per slot. This is especially handy for 3- and 6-pile recipes such as slabs & stairs, paper & books, fences, and so on.
- To immediately move a hotbar item into the crafting bench, press its corresponding number key while hovering your mouse on the slot you want it in.
- Don't forget the 2×2 crafting grid in your inventory can be used to craft any 2×2 recipes, not just a crafting table.

