### Tools
- Always use the besttoolsyou can afford.Irontools work faster thanstoneones, anddiamondtools work faster than iron ones. Note that if it's early in the game and you have only half a dozeniron ingots, you cannot really afford to use ironshovels; you should reserve your first few iron ingots for asword, apickaxeandarmor. But by the time you have your first diamonds, you should have stacks of iron, and then it's fine to use iron tools for all your everyday uses. A similar consideration applies once you have diamonds in excess.
- Unless you have high-durability diamond items, always carry spare tools or the materials to make them. At the minimum, always carrywood, as that allows you to makecrafting tablesand emergency wooden tools. This helps you avoid wasting time on long trips back to your workshop or main storage. The only reason to return home should be to unload, or because you've used up all the resources you took with you, not merely to collect some minor spare parts.
- Don't carry worn-out tools. Once a tool has low Durability, leave it behind at your base and make a new one. It doesn't matter if an old tool sits in a chest for a while before being used in a repair, and it's more efficient to repair tools in batches. This trick also reduces the risk of accidentally breaking a valuable tool rather than using it in a repair.
- Treat low-durability tools (wood, stone) as disposable unless you are short on resources. The small 'repair bonus' on these items gives only another half-dozen uses, which is probably not worth the time needed for a repair (however, taking advantage of the repair feature may save some inventory space).
- Craft yourhoesfrom stone. This provide the same speed as other materials. Most of the time you don't use up their durability either and instead of searching for one, it's probably faster to craft a new hoe each time you enlarge your farm.

### Trees
- When harvestingtreesfrom below, chop out at height 1m and 2m first, leaving the lowest block of the tree as a 'stump'. By jumping onto the stump, you can then reach one block higher into the tree without needing to make a temporary platform to stand on. This means you can farm trees one block higher than otherwise.
- When farming trees, grow either birch or jungle trees. As for the jungle trees, they're efficient when harvested as described below.Birchtrees were the best option prior to the jungle tree's introduction, because they never grew taller than seven blocks and could thus completely be retrieved in the way explained above.Oaktrees are particularly irregular and variable, but they produce onlyapples.
- To harvest trees from above – this is particularly effective for the Giant Jungle Trees – get to the top of the tree, then simply chop your way down to the base. Provided you have a quick means of getting to the top of the tree (ladders,vines,ender pearls, or anelytrawithfirework rockets) this is the fastest method of wood harvesting, and it works on trees of any height. Note that when using ladders, they drop as you break the logs that support them.

Jungle tree harvest.
- You can harvest the '2×2' trees, such as giant jungle trees from the bottom by chopping them in a spiral. Chop out two blocks vertically, then jump into this space and chop out one block above you. Then chop out the two blocks in front of you, which are 1m and 2m higher than your present height, forming a new space for you to jump into. Repeating this process in a spiral allows you to reach the top of the tree without usingladdersor building giant ugly columns.

## Mods
- Depending on how you play the game, some Minecraft mods may be ideal for speeding up your work. Tools such as MCEdit, mods such as BuildCraft, or plugins such as WorldEdit provide a wide variety of ways to speed up certain types of routine operation. Not all these mods fit with every playing style, but if you do want to be able to clone buildings, level vast areas, strip-mine tobedrock, and so on, it may well be worth investigating these tools rather than trying to do the work manually.
- To improve the game's performance, you may want to consider mods such as Optifine, FastCraft, BetterFPS, or the like. Sodium, Lithium and Phosphor, when used all together can boost FPS higher than the previously stated mods. It should be noted, however that they require the Fabric Loader to function.
- VeinMiner can save a lot of time spent looking for ores by allowing you to mine out all blocks of a single type in a preset radius. However, mining in too large of a radius (>1000 blocks) drains hunger and tool durability quickly and is therefore well used with a tool mod like Tinker's Construct.
- For 1.10 players, the Tiny Progressions mod allows for automaticcobblestonecreation that costs few resources and is even better withhoppersas the cobblestone Generator Blocks have a small inventory. You can also place achestor other storage inventory above the generator and it automatically dumps the cobblestone into it.
- To saveredstonework inmultiplayer, use mods such as Securitycraft and Sticky Redstone.
- Many mods add tools or abilities that allow you to harvest entire trees at once.
- The Inventory Tweaks mod allows highly configurable auto-sorting of player inventories, chests, and so on, and some tricks to, for example, shift-click one block at a time or automatically replace a tool when it breaks.

## Out-of-game tips
### External tools
There are many external tools that may help speed up certain types of projects. There are graphics tools to help you make blueprints (such as GIMP, AutoCAD or Google Sketchup), and shape libraries and examples, YouTube videos and more besides. For any big project, look seriously at these options. Tips and examples by other people may save you hours of experimentation or wasted work, and they may help with artistic inspiration too. Pencil and graph paper are perfectly fine tools to use too, and for some projects they are likely to be the ideal solution.

