### Potions
Once you are able to brew them, potions are an enormous time-saver in many different ways. potions of Healing and Regeneration save you having to wait so long to heal; potions of Swiftness allows you to move long distances rapidly. A splash Potion of Harming allows you to instantly kill large numbers of mobs in a mob trap, making collecting experience much quicker and easier. Depending on the mob, or the design of the mob trap, you may need to use splash potions of Poison first, to weaken the mobs, and possibly splash potions of Healing if you need to kill undead mobs (and heal yourself at the same time).

### Pressure plates
Pressure plates are handy for automatically closing doors and gates behind you without you having to stop, turn around, and close them manually. You should generally place them on the 'safe' side of a door or gate, particularly when mining. Word of warning: If you have tamed wolves or ocelots walking around your house, they may step on the pressure plate and open the door, letting hostile mobs walk in. They also then serve to orient you toward the exit or toward unexplored areas, which makes getting into and out of the mine significantly quicker. As a bonus, if you hear a pressure plate trigger, you are warned there's a mob somewhere nearby in a supposedly safe area.

### Sand and gravel
- Where it's safe and possible to do so, place atorchor other items under columns ofsandorgraveland mine them from below. As these blocks fall, they break into collectible items as they hit the torch, allowing you to collect several blocks for every single block mined or dug. This saves wear and tear on your tools too.

Note:When used ongravel, this method does not yield anyflint, which is helpful when you don't want yourgravelstack to slowly disappear as you use it, but it makes this quick-mining method useless for collectingflint.
- When you need a temporary column, place two non-sand/gravel blocks, then a column ofsandorgravelto the desired height. If you want to remove the column later, remove the bottom block, replace it with atorch, then remove the second. The column then collapses neatly into collectible items without you needing to mine the rest of it.

### Strip mining
- Miningincavesis more interesting, but also more dangerous. The safest (and, unfortunately, dullest) way to mine is to dig steps down to level 11 abovebedrock, and then dig widely spaced corridors two blocks high and one block wide. This is a form of shaft mining; it might reasonably be termed 'corridor mining'. Whenever you encounter any caves on the way, block them off and ignore them. Each corridor should be about ten meters horizontally from any other. Yes, you may sometimes miss small deposits of ores by this method. But the Minecraft world is effectively unlimited, and the object of efficient mining is to hit as manydifferentseams of ore as possible and only once. Digging twice to the same ore body isn't good, because it wastes effort re-finding a resource you had already discovered. An entirely artificial mining environment like this is safe because it's entirely under your control; there is no risk of mobs spawning in a hidden hole you hadn't discovered, and you can place lights at controllable intervals. Dangerousslimescannot spawn, and because the mine layout is artificial, it's also simple, thus making it harder to get lost. The main danger is lava intrusions, but lava now makes bubbling noises when it is nearby, so you should be forewarned. Once you are fully-equipped with diamond armor and weapons, you can then add some variety to your game by exploring the natural caverns.
- Variant: using a standalone map editor, you can replace all the stone in a tunnel shaped area with air. This can be used to create a tunnel that is 1 wide by 3 tall by however long you want. Any ores in the carved area remain because you told it to remove only the stone. Alternately, you can first tell it to convert all lava, water, gravel and sand to air, changing only the stone to air after those other annoyances are out of the way. Use this at Y 10 (the tunnel is at heights 10-12) for best diamond-finding results. If you create a series of tunnels spaced 3 blocks apart then any ore that isn't blocking a tunnel becomes visible in the side wall of one of the tunnels.

### Shear through the undergrowth
- Just as in real life someone moving through jungle terrain might carry a machete, inMinecraftyou should make copious use ofshearsto clear a path. This is probably 3–5 times faster than trying to go around all the obstacles you would otherwise face. You use up shear durability quickly, so carry a good supply of iron ingots to make replacements. The same tip helps to a smaller degree in woodland too. Remember you don't need a crafting table to craft new shears: because the recipe is 2×2 sized, you can craft them in the crafting grid of your inventory. As a bonus, all the foliage you collect can be composted.

Warning:This trick makes it much easier for mobs to find a path to you as well, and provides extra spawn points for them to appear.Keep moving, and if you do pause for a moment, stop in a safe place, and block off the path behind you so that nothing can sneak up while you've stopped. A pet cat and a pet wolf are both helpful companions here.
### Signs
Signs are valuable as in-game reminders of what you were doing in a given location, or for marking areas with warnings of hazards, the non-obvious path to the exit that you habitually overlook, and so on. Use them frequently. They also stop water and lava flow, to help when mining or making mechanisms.

