### Lava buckets
- Alava bucketis excellent for killing large numbers of mobs in one go and lighting up the area at the same time. This can be a significant time-saver when dealing with a new mob spawner. Once most of the mobs have been killed, finishing off the last few manually and neutralizing the spawner is much quicker and safer than trying to wade through large numbers of enemies. This trick works particularly well when combined with apotion of Fire Resistance, as you can wade through your own lava and move right up to the spawner, even with troublesomeblazespawners inthe Nether.
- You can also use a bucket of lava as a fuel for yourfurnace. This is good if you have large numbers of things that need to be smelted, as Lava smelts 100 items/blocks.
- Similar to flint and steel, lava buckets can be used to speed cook live animals, but better. The benefits are threefold: lava can be placed directly under mobs, slows them down and deals heavy damage. The disadvantage is that the meat drops might fall into the lava, destroying them, however this can be offset with a bit of practice. This method works best onpigsandcows, as they have higher health pools and their meat is the most nutritious. Simply place a lava block so it touches the animal, wait a few moments, scoop the lava back into your bucket and collect your meat. Pigs and cows die in 3 lava damage ticks, sheep in 2 and chickens die instantly. Some caveats: be careful around grass, because lava is pushed away from it when placed on it, potentially on you. Also when lava grilling cows, be sure not to accidentally milk them with your empty bucket.

### 
Lava and water can combine to make infinite stone or cobblestone, or smaller amounts of obsidian. Aside from simple generators, this fact can be exploited in several ways:

- Fill an area with still water, then pour lava over it. This allows you to quickly pave a large area with smooth stone without having to collect great volumes of cobblestone, smelt it back to smooth stone (requiring fuel and furnace time) and then place it. A variation of this is thelily padtrick for making a quick island in the sea.
- Mining obsidian, even with an enchanted pickaxe, is slow and tedious. If you want to build something out ofobsidian, it is far more efficient to collect buckets of lava, make a mold of some cheap material, fill with lava, and convert to obsidian en-masse by pouring water on top.
- To tower down from a high place, pour a bucket of lava down, then a bucket of water beside it to turn the flowing lava into cobblestone. Then collect both water and lava back into their buckets. You can stand on the cobblestone or mine it downward.

### Maps
- Maps are useful and can be auto-generated in-game. The catch is that you have to move about your world with the map in hand in order to draw it, and that can be dangerous because it's hard to see where you're going. The solution is to press the F1 key, temporarily removing the head-up display, so that you can see clearly and move at full speed without risk. Another way to get the same result is to press F5 to switch to the third-person view. Pressing F1 again (or F5 twice) puts things back to normal. As of 1.9, you can hold the map in your offhand slot without it taking up the screen.
- If your map borders the sea, or if you have a river within reach, another quick (and safe) mapping method is to build aboatand ride in it around the coastline(s) of the area you want to map. The map extends a reasonable distance inland, and you can 'fill in' any remaining holes in the coverage on foot. You can also move reasonably safely through swamps and the wider rivers.
- Unexploredjungleterrain is hard to traverse quickly. Here, the best practice is to start by tracing the perimeter of the jungle from the surrounding non-jungle biomes. Even swamps and dense woods are quicker to move through than jungle. Venture into the jungle only if it's a big one and you are determined to map every last part of it.
- Ride a horse or fly with elytra and fireworks, if possible.

### Placing precise numbers of blocks quickly
If you need to build something of known dimensions, or place exactly some number of an item, adjust the size of the stack in your active slot before you start. This way, you can use the stack itself as a counter that automatically runs out at the desired measurement. For example, if you wanted to mark out a 40×50 rectangular area, fill an active slot with exactly 40 blocks. You can then place them without worrying about counting; once the stack runs out, you know you've placed exactly 40 blocks. In the other direction, fill the active slot with 49 blocks and place them. For lengths larger than 64 meters in one direction, either use stacks of 64 and then one final stack with the remainder, or size your stacks with round numbers of blocks. Use whichever method you find simplest.

### Pistons
Made a mistake when building something? Do you now have to destroy and replace a large number of blocks? This may be a case where pistons can help. First, put gaps in key places so that no single run of blocks is more than twelve meters long. Then put temporary 'filler' blocks in any remaining gaps. Then place one or more pistons, and use it or them to nudge each section of blocks back into position. This tip is most useful when the initial block placement is complex, such as when drawing pixel art using wool, or for buildings with advanced decorative embellishments, or when using materials that cannot be removed without the silk touch enchantment, such as ice, glass or smooth stone. With care, you can even use this trick to move small buildings.

