### Getting rid of extra food
Even basic farms can rapidly produce a lot of food, to the point of oversupply. Once you've got a chestful of cooked meat, you're pretty much set — only a few exotic foods can even compete. In general, it's worth saving some extra oversupply — remember, chests are cheap. However, at some point it's best to just stop slaughtering animals or harvesting crops at a given farm until you actually need more. Automatic farms can be turned off, or excess crops routed to an auto-composter to make bone meal. In multiplayer, one player with a farm can support others if he/she has enough food. Crops can often be fed to animals, and crops and meat can both be sold to villagers to get emeralds(see the Trading Hall tutorial). Note that food is generally sold to villagers uncooked, so cook only what you plan to eat in the future.

## Stuck in the Nether
It is common knowledge that the player should always have a flint and steel or a fire charge in the inventory in the Nether, just in case. Building a cobblestone house around your portal also protects it from ghasts and prevent Nether mobs from wandering through. Always remember the coordinates of the portal so you can find your way back! 

If a player is stuck in the Nether without a flint and steel or a fire source, there are still ways to relight the Nether portal. 

- Baiting a ghast into blasting the empty portal again can work, as ghasts can light nether portals just as destroying nether portals.
- Nether fortresses and other structures may have chests with flint-and-steel or fire charges to relight the portal.  They can also provide obsidian to build a new one.
- The makings of a fire charge can also be harvested in the Nether and Nether Fortresses, if the chests are not being helpful:  A ghast dropsgunpowder, A blaze provides ablaze rod, and a wither skeleton dropscoal, which all three can be combined without a crafting table to make a fire charge.
- Gold can be mined in the Nether, and then traded topiglinsto get a fire charge and perhaps obsidian. They can alternatively give you enough iron nuggets to make a flint-and-steel (gravel is common in the Nether, especially in thenether wastesandsoul sand valleybiomes). Nether Gold Ore needs at least a stone pickaxe, but you also make stone tools from blackstone, which you can find in the Nether inbastionsand many low Y-axis areas.
- If you kill yourself in some sheltered spot, your items drop and you respawn in the Overworld. In single player, time doesn't pass (much) in the Nether while you're in the overworld, so you can more-or-less take your time about getting new equipment, then go back to quickly fetch your stuff. Naturally, you'd like to do this someplace where your items don't burn up or get stolen by monsters.
- Pro Tip: Don't get stuck in the Nether. It's not fun because a lot of hostile mobs spawn there.

## Item storage
In general, Minecraft rewards pack-ratting — you never know when you might need those stacks of dirt for terraforming, or cobblestone to build a mob farm or something. Most of the items in the game have at least some use, if only as compost. At some point, you may want to set up some kind of central storage in your base, classically a "chest room". It's a good idea to label those chests — item frames can be useful, but remember that having too many of them in one place can produce serious lag and slow down the game.  Some surprising items are sellable to villagers, and every little bit helps — stashing even your rotten flesh instead of destroying it can net you a few extra emeralds down the line. Some items, like phantom membranes, become more important later in the game.

Once you have picked up some spare blaze rods, you can make an ender chest to store items and get at them from elsewhere. You need a second ender chest to take with you, and a Silk Touch pickaxe to pick it up after using it. If you don't have Silk Touch, you can at least install ender chests at your main bases.

Late in the game, you can craft shulker boxes to store extra items: they function as mini-chests that can be carried inside of your own inventory like pockets. These shulker boxes can then be stored inside an ender chest. Color code the shulker boxes to create an organized inventory. This basically gives you an extremely large backpack that keeps your items after death.  Note that the shulker boxes are safe only if they're actually in the ender chest (or somewhere safe) when you die because they can still despawn like any other dropped item!

That said, eventually useless items accumulate. Low-tier tools can be merged in repairs, used up for minor tasks, or left as backups in field chests. Iron and gold tools (and armor) can be smelted into nuggets. Wooden scraps can be used for furnace fuel. Although diamond or netherite tools/weapons/armor cannot be smelted or burned as fuel, it can be used until it breaks since the items have a good durability anyways.

A "minor task" is similar to mining stone during a mining operation, which can be mined using any pickaxe, even as simple as a wooden pickaxe. For example, by bringing several weak pickaxes and your best pickaxe on a mining operation, you can use the weaker pickaxes to mine stone instead of wasting durability on your best pickaxe before you find diamonds or a better ore and using your best pickaxe to mine it. It's important to note that pickaxes are made to be used, though; if you need to mine quickly, then it's not the end of the world if you use your best pickaxe to hollow out a small hole or a tunnel in a pinch.

Many players dispose of unwanted items by dropping them into fire pits, lava, and cacti to destroy the items. But by doing so they risk accidentally dropping something valuable and losing it forever, like a diamond pickaxe. So rather than destroying the items,  a smarter method of getting rid of items is to drop them into a hole with a trapdoor over it, eventually the items despawn. By doing this you can easily recover items that you accidentally drop; plus you can't pick up items through closed trapdoors so you don't have to worry about accidentally picking up unwanted items.

