### Set your spawn
If your base is far away from the spawn point, and if you have 3 wool and 3 planks, you can make a bed. Using the bed sets your spawn point to the bed, and as of version 1.15 this works even during the daytime (sleeping in the bed also sets your spawn point). However, if the bed is not there (or blocked) when you do die, the spawn point is lost entirely and you respawn near the world spawn point.  When moving your spawn point within the base, make sure to set your spawn point to the new bed immediately.

Be careful when decorating around the bed. Some block placements allow you to sleep in the bed, but prevent the bed from actually letting you respawn.   Never completely surround the bed, even with half-height blocks, such as stone slabs. Also, if you put glass beside your bed, you may not be able to spawn beside it, as players cannot naturally spawn on transparent blocks. If your bed is obstructed and you died somewhere, you end up near the world spawn point with a message saying that "Your bed is missing or obstructed". It's possible to check if your bed is not obstructed by building a copy of your bed and the blocks surrounding it near world spawn, and then jumping on a Pointed Dripstone until death. If all is well, you should respawn on or next to your bed, but if you ended up at world spawn, you can easily get your stuff back and edit the bed until you respawn by your bed. 

You may need to be able to stand on the bed if you want to set a new spawn point, meaning that the spawn point doesn't reset if you sleep in a bed with a block above it.[verify]

### Field Bases
If you have discovered a structure that could be full of loot, such as a mineshaft, a stronghold, or a swamp hut, you may be tempted by the riches. However, don't attempt to enter right away, as you may lose any valuables and may not be able to reach them in time. To prevent this from happening, set up a new spawn point at the outskirts of the discovered structure by placing a bed and sleeping in it.  Carry a bed at all times when exploring far away from home. This also lets you skip past dangerous nights and storms, rather than fighting or hiding for the duration.

Consider that when you die, you respawn without your items. For this reason, store any valuables of yours in easily-accessible chests before you attempt anything risky. If you died someplace deep underground, you are likely to have monsters between you and the dropped items. If you plan to create a spawn base nearby, that base needs to have enough resources for you to be properly equipped before charging back into the fray. The basic kit for a spawn base should be at least half a stack of iron (or the equipment it makes, sees below), at least half a stack of planks and a quarter-stack of coal, plus bow and arrows, and food. Supplies of other equipment (torches, fences, ladders, etc.) are also helpful. Another technique is to use ender chests. This way, you can access resources from your main base. However, for this to work, you need to have another one in your main base, and also remember to stock it with items. This technique is better for more advanced players who have the necessary resources.

If there is not enough to spare to stock the base, then you may be better off respawning at your distant base, well out of chunk loading range from the death. Your items do not disappear in unloaded chunks, so if you want to easily regain your items, move to a few hundred blocks from the death site, and then zip back there as fast as possible before the five-minute timer runs out. As preparation for this, you can mark out your route from the surface to the mine, especially the proper entrances.

If you decide on a nearby spawn base, the first priority is safety — pick an area that is well lit and closed off from dangerous areas, and specially protected from creepers (stone/cobblestone walls, a door, and glassed or fenced windows to view the area in front of the entrance). A small room suffices, but there needs to be enough space for a crafting table, a furnace, and at least one double-chest to store supplies (these can be embedded in the floor if needed.) Of course, you also need space for the bed, and free space next to the head of the bed to respawn. There should also be room for an infinite water source, which can be tucked half under a wall.

What you need for the base is a bed, crafting table, furnace, and a chest. If there is no wool for the bed, you can use string (plentiful in mineshafts) to make some. The chest should contain at minimum a full set of iron armor, iron sword, a bucket, and either a second bucket, an iron pick, or shears and a flint-and-steel. (By an amazing coincidence, this is exactly what can be made with half a stack of iron ingots.) You should also have a stone pick, shovel, and axe, a bow and at least half a stack of arrows. Pre-craft some tools: another chest's worth, and at least half a stack of torches. Some fences, gates, and ladders, a door, or whatever, may come in handy too. You need a fair bit of food, at least a quarter-stack of steak or cooked porkchops or more of lesser foods. Just to be careful, stick some spare blocks in there too—a half-stack to a stack apiece of cobblestone, dirt, and gravel, as well as extra wood. (Sand is less useful, but some glass might come in handy.) Having some extra raw materials handy: coal, string, redstone, etc., is always good. If possible, top off the selection with a spare copy of the map, and a clock — these can be in frames if desired.

Before delving into the depths, remember to use that bed to set your spawn point (watch for the message). Just placing it is not enough, remember to sleep in the bed or use it to reset the spawn point there. Now when you die, you reappear not helpless in the midst of a dangerous cavern, but in a secure base with a full set of supplies to go back, seek revenge, and pick up the items. 

It's important to remember that sometimes, less is more; if you have too many items and blocks, you can run out of space in your inventory, and you have more items to make space for if you die and have to rush back to get them. It's good practice to leave valuable loot in a secure chest in field bases or in the cave itself for you to come back to. If you have a particularly large haul, you might need to make multiple trips back and forth in order to drop off all of the items; horses or a minecart route can save time in doing that, although you need to make sure you're prepared with weapons and supplies to reduce the chance of getting killed en route.

