### Mining stone and ores
When exploring underground or at night, darkness is a huge issue — monsters spawn in the dark! Try to keep at least a half-stack (32) torches on hand at all times, and whenever you drop below that, make another batch from a log and some coal or charcoal.  This lets you light up areas as you pass, and torches can also be used to mark your path. See the section on lighting above for more information.  Don't forget your shovels, either — a shovel makes clearing out dirt, gravel, and sand much quicker (especially for dirt, where the above torch trick doesn't help).  Make sure you bring enough wood, for crafting not just torches, but other useful items like ladders and fence gates. (You can make walls out of the cobblestone or other rocks you're mining!).  

When looking for ores, there are two main techniques: Go into existing caves or ravines and look for exposed ores, which is called "spelunking", or dig your way to the desired level (different ores spawn on different levels) and then dig a mine pattern through the rock, which is often called "strip-mining". These tend to overlap: on one hand, digging in a straight pattern is likely to run into caves, and on the other, a ravine or cave network can help you get down to the desired level more easily.  

### Branch mining
See the Mining Tutorial for detailed tips on digging tunnels, shafts, and mine patterns. Always be wary of lava and caves that you may dig into. Keep a water bucket in your hotbar to quench unexpected lava spills, and keep torches handy for lighting up both your own tunnels and any caves you encounter.  

When looking specifically for diamonds, your main target level is Y=-58, due to the relatively high likelihood of diamond ore generation. This is right above the bedrock. 

### Spelunking
Find a cave, and explore a branch of the cave, placing torches to light it as you go. If the cave branches off while exploring the current branch, go down one of the paths at random, pick one to explore.  If the branches seem to go deep, you can craft fences or walls to block off all but one of the paths, so that monsters don't come out of that area to surprise you from behind. When you come back, you can just pick up your fences to use them somewhere else (or replace one with a fence gate, for more controlled access). If you have jack-o-lanterns, you can use them to point the way back to the exit, or make other markers.  (See the Navigation tutorial.)  Note ores as you pass, but don't start mining until you've made the area safe, by lighting it up and blocking off unexplored areas. Remember the pickaxe tiers — if you have only a stone pickaxe, don't try to mine gold or better until you've made an iron pickaxe.

Note that it is entirely fair to make chests in the field, and use them to stash your accumulation of stone blocks. You can even stash the ores and mob drops that you've found so far, in case of unexpected death. Make sure the chests are clearly visible and lit, so you can find them later. You can also make a furnace in the field, to smelt some iron and upgrade your stone tools (or make some armor) immediately.

Once you reach a dead end, you can go back and mine the various ores that you've passed. Leave the torches that you placed, to keep the area lit and prevent monsters from spawning. Then you can go down another branch of the cave, and repeat the above process until the cave is done. If you hear monsters but can't see a path to them, you may be near another cave or ravine — if you have a sword and some armor, try digging a tunnel in the direction the sounds are coming from... but be prepared for a fight, or a hasty retreat!

Masses of dirt and especially gravel can hide more sections of a cave complex, and with a shovel (and the torch trick) they can be easier to get through than stone. But be careful about walking on gravel or sand — it may be unsupported beneath, ready to fall out from under you when you dig or even place a torch. Similarly, if you see "dust" drifting down from the ceiling, that means there is unsupported gravel or sand above you.  If you can see and reach the edge of the patch, you might want to carefully set it off by digging a block while you're not actually under it.  If necessary, you can even drop it onto yourself... after placing a torch at your feet to break it as it falls.

Lava flows ("springs") are mostly an obstacle, as you can see them easily and avoid them. If you can safely reach the source block of a lava spring, you can capture it in a bucket, or just destroy it by placing a block there.  You can also try quenching the flow with water, but be careful, sometimes that can make things worse — try to have the water flowing down from above, to cover as much of the stream as possible. Before you quench or remove a lava flow, remember that it can also block monsters, and it is lighting up the area. After removing it, make sure to light up any areas that are now left dark, and explore newly-accessible parts of the cave.

Water flows can help you reach higher areas, but they can also carry monsters to you from those same areas. If they lead up into dark areas, it's usually a good idea to treat them as a cave branch, swimming up them to light the area.  Also be careful that they don't carry you into lava or other danger.

### Ravine mining
Ravines are deep cuts into the world, often exposing ores such as coal or iron, or even gold or redstone.  They can open onto the surface, or appear deeper within a cave network.  They are certainly a quick way to get deeper to reach more advanced ores, but be careful:  If you just jump in, you take fall damage, and may well die of it!  There are a number of ways to get down more safely:

- Place a water source at the edge, or dig out the edge of a nearby pool to let water flow in.  This creates a waterfall that you can swim up and down.
	- Check for lava at the bottom first — water flowing onto lava quenches the lava as far as the water flows — about 7 blocks. If a lava lake reachesfurtherthan that, the water can wash you straight to your doom! You might want to move the waterfall around a bit, placing your water bucket in different places to quench a wider area. Then you can leave the waterfall in the middle of the safe area, where it can't reach the lava anymore.
- You can place sand or gravel at the edge, letting the blocks fall down to make a stack, which you can step onto and then dig your way down. To get back up, just reverse this with classic pillar jumping, or you can make a more permanent exit by placing ladders or building a staircase.
- Slow but steady: You can dig a staircase down the side of the ravine, being cautious of overhangs and monsters.
- A more advanced technique is to have already harvestedvineswith shears; place some at the edge of the ravine, and use bonemeal or time to let them grow into a ladder.

