## Mining
Main article: Tutorials/Mining
As you can tell from the name of this game, mining is pretty important.  Mining is more general than it sounds; it refers to almost any situation where you collect resources after breaking the blocks they consist of.  Those blocks fall into four general categories according to their tool:  Wood is mined with an axe, dirt-type blocks are mined with a shovel, stone-type blocks (including ores) are mined with a pickaxe, and "other" blocks are mined with "bare hands" or, more quickly, with a hoe. Swords can be used to break cobwebs and bamboo.

For most of these, you technically can collect them with bare hands, but this is painfully slow.  Mining with any item besides one of these tools counts as "bare hands", and so does mining wood, stone, or dirt type blocks with a hoe.  However, stone-type blocks in general absolutely require a pickaxe to get the actual block or mineral that you're looking for, and the pickaxe must also be of sufficient "tier" for the ore (or mineral block) in question.  Common stone and rocks, and coal ore, can be mined with  any pickaxe; copper, iron, and lapis lazuli require at least a stone pickaxe; gold, redstone, amethyst and diamond require at least iron, and obsidian or ancient debris/netherite require a diamond pickaxe.  If you try to mine any of these without a pickaxe, or with a pickaxe that isn't strong enough, you can eventually break through the block, but it drops nothing.  This can be useful if you have no tools or wood to make more, and just need to get through some stone, but it doesn't let you collect resources.  For normal business, you should carry an axe, a pickaxe, and a shovel, each of sufficient tiers, to deal quickly with blocks of their type. Iron tools are the best balance of rarity and utility, although diamond and netherite tools are good to have in order to mine their corresponding blocks. 

All these tools have "durability", meaning that they can mine a limited number of blocks. A tool breaks when you exhaust its durability, leaving you bare-handed. The decreasing durability is shown by a little colored bar under the tool (no bar means that the tool is unused, with full durability).  In desktop editions of Minecraft, pressing F3 + H changes the display mode so that their tooltips show the numeric value of the durability. As the game progresses, you can enchant tools to extend their durability and even let them repair themselves as you gain experience.  

Until then, you should make new tools as the old ones wear out.  You can also use a crafting grid to combine two mostly-worn-out tools of the same type and tier -- this combines their durability, with a small bonus for good measure. (Doing this with enchanted tools, however, removes their enchantments!) When going out to mine, check the durability of your tools before leaving, to make sure you don't unexpectedly get caught without a tool. You can also bring along spare tools or materials (stone or iron, plus wood) to make new tools: you need a crafting table, but you can make one on the spot from a single log of wood. Stone tools are cheap, and for the early game you should be using mostly those, saving your iron pickaxe for the ores that need it. Once you have plenty of iron, you can start using iron tools for "everyday" mining — they are faster and last longer — while saving your diamond and/or enchanted tools.  Diamond tools last a long time, but not forever — don't start using them for ordinary excavation until you have plenty of diamonds. Note that gold tools are weakest of all, and are a waste of gold to craft, at least earlier on; they are enchantable, however, so once you begin using enchantments later on, they might become more useful.

### Log collecting technique from trees
If you can get to every block of wood on a tree but just can't reach the top block, try leaving the bottom block intact, then jump on it to get the rest.  Once done, harvest the bottom.  If you still can't reach the top you can "pillar jump" up by jumping and placing blocks beneath you (use blocks that are easy to break, like dirt, wood, or stone). Once done, you can mine away from your own blocks, and either break the "tree stump" or leave it to mark the tree's natural drops from leaf decay when you come back a bit later. For a "giant" tree with a 2×2 trunk, you can mine only some of the wood to make yourself a spiral staircase up to the top of the tree, and then mine those on the way down.  Alternatively, you can also turn a few blocks of wood into ladders to climb right the top of the tree.

The leaf blocks are hoe-type blocks; you can break them slowly by hand or quickly with a hoe, but when mining natural trees, they also (slowly) break on their own — after you have removed the wood, the leaves eventually decay. Whether you break them or wait for them to break on their own, they occasionally drop saplings, sticks, and (for oak and dark oak trees) apples that you can collect.

### Collecting sand or gravel without using a shovel
Instead of wasting a shovel's durability by digging piles of sand, gravel, or even concrete powder, you can use torches or various other blocks to break entire columns at once.  This works with any "passable" block, including rails, redstone dust, or even slabs; but torches are almost always handy since they save a mining player's life more than any other tool.

For this trick, the player should hold a torch, and use it to break the bottom-most block if a stack then immediately place a torch on the floor of the newly empty space.  The column should collapse into a scattering of items.  If you placed the torch too fast, the sand, etc. might not have time to start falling, and the torch just holds them up; in this case just break the next block above the torch as well. 

Breaking gravel using this trick never drops flint, which should be considered by the player depending on the resources desired.

Also, you can dig down underneath it so that the sand or gravel is two blocks from the floor. Dig out the block that is two blocks away from the gravel, then place a torch there. Mine the block above the torch and the sand or gravel falls on the torch and drops as items.

How it works:  The pillar of gravity=affected blocks turns into falling block entities, which can land on any full block, but pass through non-solid blocks (much as a player or mob would).  If they land in an empty space, they turn back into a proper block.  However, if they land and find there is already a block in that space, they instead turn into a dropped item.

