## Light and darkness
Main article: Light
Light is a key resource in the game. Besides letting you see effectively, it prevents most monsters from spawning, which effectively makes it the usual way to "claim" territory as player-controlled. Initially, most of your light comes from daylight and torches, but later on you can craft and find more effective or brighter sources of light. Each light source has a "light level"; the maximum brightness of that source. The light level of the light source is equal to the brightness value of blocks directly beside the light source, and the light level drops by 1 for each block away from the source in any direction. Overworld monsters spawn only in complete darkness, or in pre-1.18 versions, light level 7 or less.   

If you're short on torches, you can calculate the minimum number of torches necessary to keep monsters from spawning. Even if things are a little dim, any space within 13 blocks of a torch in any direction is monster spawn-proof. Additionally, monsters don't spawn within 24 blocks of the player. It's a good idea to light up the perimeter of your base, in order to prevent monsters from spawning around it, making it impossible to sleep or difficult to exit safely. Note that monsters need a "full block" to spawn: they don't spawn in midair (except for monsters spawned by a monster spawner, a block found in dungeons), or on top of fences, buttons, or other partial blocks. Because of that, making a path or a floor out of slabs recessed into the ground can prevent monsters from spawning on top of it, and can be efficient in terms of material usage. Land monsters also don't spawn in water, with the exception of drowned. 

If you use the F3 debug screen, you can see the light level of the block you are standing on — pacing around your base with the debug screen on can help you find potential trouble spots. However, coal and wood are usually accessible on the surface of the Overworld, so basic lighting shouldn't often be a major issue there. It's important to make sure you carry a surplus of the materials to make torches; wood and coal are valuable in crafting and smelting respectively, so the raw materials are good to have on hand for both torches and other uses.

While mining, it may be more difficult to access wood, particularly if you're deep into a cave and running low on supplies and tools. In order to save torches while mining, they can be placed along the floor every 26 blocks, since a torch has a light level of 14, and that spacing ensures the light level never drops to 0, where mobs can spawn. If F3 is enabled, place the torch when the light level of the block the player is standing on is equal to 2.

If you have shelter, wood, and cobblestone, but cannot find any coal to fuel or light the environment, you can make a furnace and smelt some logs (not planks). Use the planks for fuel, and the logs as the material being smelted. 2 planks are used up for every three logs smelted. These smelt into charcoal, which is functionally identical to coal, except that it cannot be packed into coal blocks (or sold to villagers). Trees can be grown in places on top of dirt, and at a light level higher than 8 where the sapling is placed, even underground; saplings are commonly dropped from decaying or destroyed leaves, meaning that it's possible to repeatedly farm trees wherever they're planted. They also form the basis for most tools, meaning they're generally good to keep within reach to prevent yourself from running out. 

Spending a lot of time in particularly dim areas has the potential to cause eye strain. To avoid that, change the brightness by going into Settings > Video Settings then look for the slider named "Brightness". By default, the game has a "Moody" brightness setting. Setting it up to a higher level ("Bright" is recommended) makes them a bit easier on the eyes. However, particularly dark areas remain just as dark, and don't affect monster spawning. It's generally more comfortable to play with the (in-game, and perhaps IRL) lights on, so for all these reasons, it's still important to light things up properly using torches or other light sources.

## Beds and bases
### Building a house
For beginners, the player might want to hollow out the side of a hill or mountain. This can be done quickly and turn into a good shelter, but keep in mind it is harder to find the home if the player wanders off. The player could place torches around the entrance to draw attention it to avoid this, and mobs can't track any players down by light sources — zombies can, however, so another idea is to surround the entrance with unnatural blocks or block formations, which draws attention to it without potentially attracting zombies. Wood can be used for this purpose, although most wooden blocks are flammable, and may be lit by certain mobs or thunderstorms.

A more durable shelter can be made of cobblestone, stone (including andesite, diorite or granite), or stone bricks; dirt can't be used for anything but strictly temporary shelters since it's easily damaged by explosions. Don't build with or on sand or gravel, since they are affected by gravity, which makes them difficult to work with when trying to build underneath them, i.e. making a basement. The most durable block to make a house with is obsidian, which can't be blown up by anything at all.  However, obsidian is difficult to break — diamond or netherite tools are the only ones that can break it, and even then obsidian requires a frustratingly long time to harvest. The material isn't versatile at all because you can't make slabs or stairs out of it. It just looks bold and foreboding unlike other materials, if aesthetics are important to your base design.

These are some recommendations for later building:

- Take the time to make a dedicated storage area with a good amount of chests. Reorganizing every 30 minutes is a pain.
- Make some farms that are modular and therefore can be easily expanded.
- If the shelter was made out of wood at first, then players may want to change it to something more blast-resistant, likecobblestone, or evenobsidian, if supplies allow. However, resistance isn't always a top priority, and you may just want to build a nice house, if that is the case, then just be wary of any nearby mobs, try to spawn proof the area to the best of your ability, and possibly put a border around your house with a fence.

