#### The Tube style Fall Grinder Tutorial
The other option for grinding witches is a tube style fall trap. This removes the noisy minecarts, but at the cost of being able to see the sometimes ugly pipeline the witches go through before they take their fall and die. To make this grinder, dig 4 blocks straight down and dig out the bottom most block on the two tall pair facing the front of the farm. Place one water source there and hollow out 2 tall openings for three blocks ahead of you facing away from the farm. Put two signs and then hollow out two tall area 1 block in front of those signs. Dig 1 block straight down after the signs and put the soul sand in its place. Dig 32 blocks upward, adding water source blocks as you go, if you encounter the surface, put blocks around you until you reach 32 blocks. Then put 5 more blocks in front of you, facing away from the farm and encase the area with your building block of choice in a 2 high fashion so witches can get through and without drowning. Place a water source block on the 32nd block so water flows until the end of the 5 blocks you placed earlier. Break the 5th block and ride the water down to the surface. Place four blocks approximately where the bottom of the water column is and ride the water upward. On the 4th side block of the pipe's "elbow" section, use a sign to cut the water off. Ride the water blade downward to the land. Close up the pipe to the surface except for a two tall area to get back in. Make sure you count the blocks from that 32nd block downward to let you know how many more blocks you need to dig downward. If you did this right, you should only need to dig down 4 blocks below the surface to make a 32 block drop for the Witches. On the 4th block Hollow out a 3 long tunnel away from the farm and dig one down for all blocks except the one that should be 32 blocks down from the elbow part of the pipeline. Make sure you replace the two blocks on the surface you needed to get into the pipe earlier. Place a double chest sideways on and then take out the 32nd block and then take a hopper and put it in its place, place a carpet on top of the hopper to prevent witches from falling directly into the hopper. Close the pipe up, Hollow out the area around the chest, light it up and you should be good.

#### 
Look around the farm for any bare and exposed blocks without Redstone dust on it and that are not holes in the farm's structure. If you did the job right with your layers, you should have no air gaps between layers and only the front of the farm to seal up. For all exposed full blocks, place any kind of button on top of the block to prevent spawning there. Once all 18 buttons are put in their places, go to the front of the farm and seal it up with your building block of choice. It should be a tight seal where there is no light peaking in the farm. Also make sure that the building blocks line up with the slabs on the roof.

Once the farm is closed up you need to figure out where to set your AFK room. This is to ensure the highest amount of spawns and drops from the Witches without having to clear out a perimeter. This can be best found by finding the block above the upside down stairs and recording the Y value using the F3 Debug screen and looking at the coordinates of the "looking at block" space, when you hover over the block in question. If you are using the Tube style grinder, The hopper itself is the target you need to find the Y value coordinates. Finally add 128 to that Y value and create an accessible AFK room at that exact resulting Y coordinate number. For best results it is better to put your AFK hut in the middle of your farm so the spawning circle will be most effective at that farm.

### Selective flush design
This design by xisumavoid uses tripwire hooks to detect when a witch spawns and flush it off with water. Unlike some other designs, this one only flushes part of the platform. As witches cannot spawn in water, this makes the design slightly more efficient.




### Shifting floors design
This design by ilmango uses pistons, soul sand, and trapdoors to cause the witches to fall through the floor. This has an advantage over water flush designs as the movement of the floors completes more quickly than the movement of water.




