#### Spawn Platforms and Flushing System
Connect the four corner blocks of the first spawnable level with your building block of choice and fill in that platform with your block of choice. On only one of the 9 block faces of the spawning platform, which will become the "back" of the farm, place an extra row of blocks on the same level as your existing spawnable area. Mark one block above that area on either side of the 9 blocks you just placed and place one block each side, then place another row of blocks 1 block behind and upward from the 9 block row you just placed so there is a trough that water can flow from the trough to the end of the spawnable platform. Next, put trapdoors on all 9 blocks that are on the same level as the spawnable level and close them so that when you put water in, it will not flood the area. Put your two water buckets in with a space in between so all three will become water source blocks. Repeat this process with one water bucket after the initial source to fill up the trough. Extend the two blocks you put on the sides of the trough until they are at the same block as the corner of the spawnable area you made earlier. Count 1 block away from the trough on the sides you just completed and place one block diagonally outward from the initial wall. This should look like an L shape on the left side of the farm and a backwards L on the right side of the farm with the temporary block you placed to assist the process. Repeat the wall process again, drawing out both those blocks that you just placed in a straight line to the end of the spawnable platform. Place your tripwire hooks on the second block up from the spawning floor that now appears recessed. Then place your string so that the tripwire hooks are connected. Place a row of blocks on top of the tripwire hooks on every layer except the top layer where you will place slabs. Place blocks on top of the trough to seal it. Choose one side of the tripwire hooks to become the trigger side of the farm. Place Redstone dust on top of the block that the tripwire hooks are connected to and continue until you get to each end. On the end block, place a Redstone torch. Extend the back row of trough blocks so that Redstone dust placed there would connect to the Redstone torch. Finally place Redstone dust on the blocks you placed for the back of the trough and connect it up to the Redstone torch using the new blocks you placed. 

#### The Other Spawn Platforms
Spawn Platform two is identical to the first platform. Repeat the above process. Spawn plaform three is also identical except to leave the blocks that cover the tripwire hooks off. For spawn platform three you should cover the tripwire hooks and the row of blocks above the waterlogged trap doors with slabs. Continue to the end of the spawnable area. Then, count one block inward from the outermost slab on the front of the farm and place a slab in front of that. Do the same thing on the other side of the farm. Repeat this process from both sides and you should have a two block wide overhang of slab blocks.

#### 
Dig a trench 2 deep by 9 wide and 1 long. Place water source blocks at either end of the trench. Where the sources meet put 1 sign to prevent the water from flowing downward.

#### The Entity Minecart Grinder Tutorial
One Option for grinding Witches is to use 24 minecarts as an entity crammer trap. The downside is that minecarts, especially 24 of them updating when the witches get killed create a lot of noise. In order to make this form of grinder, dig straight down 4 blocks and hollow out 4 blocks ahead of you to create a 2 tall, 4 block long corridor. Hollow everything except the block directly under the water streams by one block downward and place a rail on the block left behind. Place all 24 minecarts, then a full block in front of the rails so the minecarts cannot escape when the farm is closed up. Take the block underneath the block with the rail and 24 minecarts on it out. Dig 2 blocks down on every block except for the one where the 24 minecarts are now resting. Place the chests one block away and two blocks below the one that is holding the minecarts above. Place another rail on the hopper and a slab on each side of the rail. Place the hopper minecart on the rail. Place an upside down stair in front of the rail and there you have it.

