### Rays Works gold farm 2
Rays Works would later make another design consisting of only one layer. The zombified piglins are attracted to the middle of the spawning platforms by a turtle egg and either an iron golem or zoglin and are killed using fall damage (using a zoglin is more efficient as it doesn't kill, whereas an iron golem sometimes kills before they fall). The farm also drops XP as the zombified piglins are made angry by the iron golem/zoglin before they die. The farm is pretty fast in terms of XP, getting you to approximately level 80 in 15 minutes. Link is here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5iT-D3KNuvE

### 
This gold farm is one of the most powerful gold farms out there, able to make 1600 gold blocks per hour. The farm consists of 34 circular-shaped platforms. In the middle of these platforms, there are 4 portals and an egg hidden in the middle to attract the piglins. They get teleported to the overworld and float to another portal up in the sky using bubble elevators. The glass pillars are around 140 blocks long and it takes around 50 seconds for the zombified piglins to enter the second portal, which is enough time for them to enter another portal. The second portal leads to the killing chamber, which by the way had boats to have an unlimited mob cap of mobs. Just like the other designs, the spawning platforms had a glass roof to stop ghasts from spawning. Other bonus thing that are recommended although not necesarry is a beacon that has strength, regeneration and resistance effects. Strength speeds up the killing process, allowing for more mobs to spawn. Both Regeneration and Resistance are needed for long AFK sessions to prevent you from dying from starvation. In 24 hours, it can get you from level 0 to level 862.

## Overworld - Java version
For Bedrock specific farms see the next chapter below.

To build a farm in the Overworld, one can build a lot of large nether portals, interlocked to save obsidian, and put signs or open trapdoors on the edges of the bottom obsidian blocks, so that zombified piglins (ZPs) walk off. From here, one can use water to collect them into a fall or suffocation trap.  Snow golems can be an alternative for pushing them around, or at least getting them moving.

One fundamental problem with Overworld gold farms is that it is occasionally possible for angered ZPs to return to the Nether through a portal, and perhaps anger others while there. Without proper precautions, you may be ambushed by one or more angry ZPs when they return to the Nether though a nearby portal. Make sure that all your farm portals lead into a containment area where the ZPs are isolated.  This area should have enough room for any mobs there to get away from the portal for their 15 second cooldown, so that they can then go back to the Overworld.  (Also include a fence-gate exit, just in case you stumble in yourself!) Similarly, one must be careful not to use a portal in the Nether, which takes them into the farm for the same reason.  Returnees can be minimized by use of turtle eggs to lure zombified piglins out of the portals. This ensures that they move and fall even without players nearby.

Since the availability of larger portals, it is no longer necessary to make a prism of portals as large portals can do as well. However, the same practice can still be used to make a hyper-efficient farm by building portals in concentric rings (one open to each cardinal direction) from a small inner ring (usually 5×5, to have a single center block) out to the maximum of 23×23.  Note that even the inner ring can be 23 blocks tall (more portal blocks mean more spawns). A ring of size n and height h takes 8(n-1) +4(h-2) = 8n+4h-16 obsidian, with 4(n-3) =4n-12 trapdoors (3n-9 logs) needed to line the inside.  If all the portals are to be 23-tall, the obsidian cost can be simplified to 8n+76.  

- The extreme here is to put the nether portals directly adjacent, with a 5×23×5 square of portals surrounded by a 7×23×7 square, and so on out to a 23×23×23 cube (the tops and bottoms merge into a solid ceiling and floor, with the portal sides forming diagonals).  This can culminate with 10,080 portal blocks, using 1,800 obsidian for a maximum space efficiency of 82.8%.  Walling off the outer side of the largest portals and placing trapdoors on the edge of the smallest inner portals allows ZPs to spawn and wander into the drop or push each other into it. The turtle eggs become important here, as the ZPs from outer portals need to move all the way to the center. Contrary to intuition, they can't actually go to the Nether:  They have the same 15 second cooldown as if they had actually come through the portal, so they can't go through until they have gotten away from that solid mass of portal blocks for 15 seconds.  And when they do reach the middle, they should be going down that 3×3 shaft, which can easily be narrowed to 1×1. (Of course, make sure of the Nether containment area anyway, just to be safe!)
- A slightly less expensive scheme is to alternate portals with empty rings, with the inside bottoms of each portal lined with open trapdoors.  That is, the 5×5 portal is surrounded by a 9×9 portal, then 13×13, and so on, all of them up to 23 blocks high.  This way, ZPs fall much more quickly, and a large water pan can collect them to a central point.
	- The build can be done in stages, according to resources:
		- 5×23×5: 40+92-16=116 obsidian, 6 logs
		- 9×23×9: 72+92-16= 148 obsidian, 18 logs
		- 13×23×13: 180 obsidian, 30 logs
		- 17×23×17: 212 obsidian, 42 logs
		- 21×17×21: 244 obsidian, 54 logs
		- total:  900 obsidian (14 stacks and change), 150 logs.
		- If you still want more, you can ditch the trapdoors and upgrade it in place to the "solid" version above.
	- The simplest collector is a 27×27 water pan, with two levels..  You need 676 blocks and/or slabs (most of them can be slabs) plus 104 for each perimeter block (each layer in the outer wall), not counting any doorways or decorations you may add.
		- Start with a classic 9×9 pan surrounding the 1×1 drop chute. Move up a level to surround it with the rest of the large pan -- slabs or blocks suffice for most of this, but at the inner/outer border you'll want real blocks, so you can place water on them.
		- The outermost ring of the pan should be a 25×25 square of walls or fences on the same level as the pan bottom -- that is, you'd have a half-step up from the outer pan to the fences.  Iron bars or glass also work, without the half-step.
		- Surround this with the 27×27 outer wall.
		- Now the water sources:
			- As usual, the inner pan gets a water source at each corner, which should send the flow in to surround the hole.
			- For the outer pan, water sources go every other block on top of the fences (place them against the outer wall), butnotin a complete ring.  First place the sources every other space along two opposite edges (north/south or east/west); the flow runs exactly to the edge of the inner pan, straight across the entire outer pan.  For theothertwo edges, place 5 sources on each side, covering that dry middle third.  (Still every other space; one at the midpoint, and two on each side.)  This sends the water flow to the other edges of the inner pan.  Warning: If you do try to finish the ring of water sources, you getnewwater sources forming from the corners, and your nice neat collector turns into a sheet of sources that floods over the inner pan.

Regardless, the mobs gather to a central point, generally a 1×1 dropshaft.  At the full scale of this farm, a complex grinder is unecessary:  The farm can produce enough spawns that simply forcing them all into a single space starts to kill them through crowding ("suffocation"). They can be dropped onto a bottom-slab exposing their feet to you, with a hopper beneath that which can go to an item sorter.  This setup has three main modes of operation:

- The crowding damage lets the farm run unattended as long as a player is close enough to keep the mobs from despawning, producing a stream of gold nuggets and rotten flesh.
- Alternatively, you can take your Looting III sword and kill the ZPs manually, for about three times the gold and some grindstone experience.
- Or, the two can be combined:  Wield the Looting sword, but don't use it (much).  Let the ZPs accumulate in the catcher, but occasionally punch one of them to aggro the group, then immediately go back to the Looting sword. Once the crushing damage sets in, their deaths are considered your kills, yielding experience and the more generous gold drops. The catch here is that you need to stay mostly in front of the ZPs, to maintain the aggro -- if you move out of line-of-sight, their forgiveness timer starts ticking and they eventually calm down.

This farm rewards at least a minimal item sorter setup, if only to divert the rotten flesh away from more valuable stuff.  After that, separating out nuggets leaves the occasional gold ingots, and unstackable golden swords (and occasional armor).  For the rotten flesh, it's likely worth setting up some system to automatically destroy overflow from the system.  (Bringing in a cleric villager is also an option.)  For gold nuggets, you'll just need to regularly check the chest, and craft the take into more compact ingots or blocks.  Swords can be sent to a blast furnace by way of a double-chest; every so often check the chest and  hoppers for enchanted swords you can feed to the grindstone (and then put back to be smelted).  When enough swords have accumulated, drop some fuel in the blast furnace to clear out the chest.

