### General
** Chat **
- Removed Chat Preview.
- Chat messages deleted by server moderators will no longer be completely hidden, but rather replaced with text stating "This chat message has been deleted by the server."
- Deleted chat messages will now be displayed in the chat window for at least 3 total seconds before being hidden.
- The Chat Trust Status indicators have been tweaked:
	- The 'Modified' tag will no longer display for server-modified messages where only style has been changed.
	- The 'Modified' tag icon and indicator is now dark gray.
	- The 'Not Secure' tag is now light gray and does not have an icon.
- Partially filtered chat messages now show the filtered text as gray hashes with a hover text saying that it was filtered.
- The Chat Reporting screen now shows when the player being reported rejoined chat.

** Logging **
- Every telemetry event sent from the client is now logged to disk.
	- Old log files are removed after 7 days.
	- These can be found under thelogs/telemetrydirectory.
		- A shortcut to this directory is available via the "Open My Data" button on the telemetry data collection screen.

** Multiplayer **
- Makes changes to the Open to LAN screen.
- Now allows selecting the port on which to host the LAN world.
- The game mode and allow cheats buttons are now initialized with the default values of the world.

** Music **
- The Wild Update music has been tweaked to be slightly less loud.

** Options **
- Merged the "Minimum" and "Maximum" options for the smooth lighting video setting, since there's no difference between them.

** Protocol **
- The network protocol now supports adding player entities to the world without being added to the 'tab' player list.
- Servers can now lazily distribute players' profile public keys along with their first chat packet.
- Message 'headers' within the Secure Chat protocol no longer need to be distributed when private messages are sent.
- Contextual message references are now deduplicated for efficiency within the Secure Chat network protocol.
- Profile public keys will now be refreshed without reconnecting.
- Clients now reset their chat session on receiving a login packet.

** Realms **
- The Realms News button will now show a confirmation screen before opening the link.

** Recipes **
- Many recipe files were made to be formatted more consistently.
- Blocks and items that are crafted using nine of a single item are now considered shapeless recipes, though this has no impact on gameplay.
- Crafting book categories/tabs can now be controlled by recipe definitions.
- Categories available forshaped/shapelessand various special crafting recipes:
	- building
	- redstone
	- equipment
	- misc(default)
- Categories available for smelting,blasting,smoking,campfire_cooking
	- food
	- blocks
	- misc(default)
- Some crafting books collapse multiple categories into a single tab.
- The exact mappings might change in the future.

** Resource pack **
- The version is now12.
- Removed "fixers" for resource packs with versions3and4(pre-flattening).
	- The game will no longer try to adapt packs with those versions to the current version.
- To improve loading performance, block and item textures are now loaded before they are processed by block and item models.
	- By default, textures not in thetextures/itemandtextures/blockdirectories will no longer be automatically recognized and will fail to load.
- Can have configuration files now, located in the newatlasesdirectory, that control which images are included in the atlases. That directory contains following JSON entries for configuring atlases:
	- blocks: textures used by block and item models.
	- banner_patterns,beds,chests,shield_patterns,shulker_boxes,signs: used to render some special-case models.
	- mob_effects: textures used for effect icons in the UI.
	- paintings: textures used for paintings.
	- particles: textures used for particles (referenced by thetexturesfield in files within theparticlesdirectory).
- If multiple packs include those files, they are merged by their order within the pack (same as tags in data packs).
- Inside these files is a JSON object with a single list calledsources.
	- Every entry insourcesruns in during load, in order of definition, adding or removing new files to the texture list; to be later referenced by block models, particles, etc.
- Types of sources:
	- directory: lists all files in a directory and its subdirectories, across all namespaces.
		- source: directory in pack to be listed (relative totexturesdirectory)
		- prefix: string to be appended to the sprite name when loaded.
	- single: adds a single file.
		- resource: location of a resource within the pack (relative totexturesdirectory, implied.pngextension).
		- sprite: sprite name (optional, defaults toresource).
	- filter: removes sprites matching the given pattern.
		- namespace,path: patterns (regular expressions, regex) of ids to be removed (only works for entries already in the list), if omitted, any value will be matched.
	- unstitch: copies rectangular regions from other images.
		- resource: location of a resource within the pack (relative totexturesdirectory, implied.pngextension)
		- divisor_x,divisor_y: used for determining the units used by regions.
		- regions: list of regions to copy from the source image.
			- sprite: sprite name.
			- x,y: coordinates of the top-left corner of the region.
			- width,height: size of the region.
		- Values such asxare transformed to real image coordinates via dividing by their divisor, and then multiplying by the real image size.
- Example:
	- If a pack has a file namedassets/test/textures/fancy/iridium.pngand source is{"type": "directory", "source": "fancy", "prefix": "custom/"}, the texture will be available in models astest:custom/iridium.

** Sounds **
- Various wood types now have unique sounds when placed, broken, or walked on.
	- There are three sets of unique sounds: Overworld wood types, Nether wood types, and bamboo.
- Step sounds can now be heard when walking oncarpets,lily padsandsmall amethyst buds.
- Step sounds can now be heard when walking throughcrimson roots,glow lichen,nether sproutsandwarped roots.

** Tags **
- Removed#non_flammable_woodblock tag.
- Removed#overworld_natural_logsitem tag.
- Added crimson roots, glow lichen, lily pad, moss carpet, nether sprouts, small amethyst bud, warped roots and#wool_carpetsto the#inside_step_sound_blocksblock tag.

** Telemetry **
- AddedWorldUnloadedevent, and removed client Java version from theWorldLoadedevent.
	- They are required events.
	- Data includes game mode, client or server modded status and game version.
	- Can be used to calculate how long the world session has lasted (in seconds and ticks).
	- Data fromWorldLoadedis sent when a world is launched, and data fromWorldUnloadedis sent when a world is shut down (quitting to title, disconnecting from a server).
- Added 2 new optional events:
	- PerformanceMetrics
		- Data includes frame rates, rendering performance, memory usage, operating system, and the modded status of the client and server.
		- With game version, it can be used to compare the performance profile for new versions of Minecraft.
	- WorldLoadTimes
		- Data includes the total time in milliseconds for the world to load, whether this was a new world, as well as game version and platform details.
		- Can indicate what impacts load times when added new features or do larger technical changes.

** User interface **
- When tabbing through buttons, tooltips are displayed above or below them.
- Tooltips displayed when hovering are displayed next to the cursor.
- Tooltips from focused buttons (focused by pressing tab) take priority over tooltips from hovered buttons.
- Updatedknowledge booktextures on crafting UI andtutorial hintsto the revision updated in thetexture update.

** General **
- Migrated linear algebra types to Java OpenGL Math Library (JOML).
- Translation files andpack.mcmetaare now including non-ASCII characters (encoded as UTF-8) directly instead of using escape sequences.
- Optimized some exceptionally slow cases of structure lookup.

