# Java Edition 1.19.4
1.19.4 is a minor update to Java Edition released on March 14, 2023,[1] which adds the /ride and /damage commands, makes technical changes, and fixes bugs.[2]
Aside from the aforementioned changes, this version also released more features from 1.20 under an "Experimental" toggle. This is the final major release for The Wild Update.

## Contents
- 1 Additions
	- 1.1 Non-mob entities
	- 1.2 Command format
	- 1.3 General
- 2 Changes
	- 2.1 Blocks
	- 2.2 Items
	- 2.3 Mobs
	- 2.4 Non-mob entities
	- 2.5 Command format
	- 2.6 Gameplay
	- 2.7 General
- 3 Experimental
	- 3.1 Additions
		- 3.1.1 Blocks
		- 3.1.2 Items
		- 3.1.3 Mobs
		- 3.1.4 Non-mob entities
		- 3.1.5 World generation
		- 3.1.6 General
	- 3.2 Changes
		- 3.2.1 Blocks
		- 3.2.2 Items
		- 3.2.3 World generation
		- 3.2.4 Gameplay
		- 3.2.5 General
- 4 Fixes
- 5 Video
- 6 References

## Additions
### Non-mob entities
** Display entities **
- Including Block Display, Item Display, and Text Display (block_display,item_display, andtext_display), for flexible display of blocks, items and text.
	- Likemarker(marker), don't tick and have no collisions or physics.
	- Models render at entity position, with normal rotation around X and Y axis (so it can be controlled by teleport commands), but also with additional arbitrary model transform.
- 2 new data types added, each of them has 2 forms, but only one for saving, as following:
	- rotation
		- Quaternion form (used for saving): array of 4 numbers, describing components (x, y, z, w).
		- Axis-angle form: object with following fields:
			- axis: 3D vector.
			- angle: Angle in radians.
	- transformation: Arbitrary affine transform, composed as following fields and following order:
		- Matrix form: array of 16 numbers, describing row-major matrix.
		- Decomposed form (used for saving): object with following fields:
			- translation: 3D vector.
			- left_rotation:rotationobject.
			- scale: 3D vector.
			- right_rotation:rotationobject.
- Some properties of display entites can be interpolated, to create gradual changes over time for clients, instead of instantenous jumps.
	- Display entities keep track of current and previous values of interpolated values:
		- All properties marked as "interpolated" are part of a single interpolation set.
		- Any update to interpolated property will cause all values of interpolation set to be saved as "current".
			- Data command executions that do not change value of property (even if it's present in NBT) do not count as updates.
			- Updates are synchronized to clients at most once per tick, so multiple updates within command will still count as single update.
		- Previous current values are saved as "previous".
		- If interpolation is enabled, entity will transition between "previous" and "current" values over time.
		- Start of interpolation (entity fully in "previous" state) is defined by fieldinterpolation_start(game time, in ticks).
			- Set to-1to load current game time instead.
	- When a new interpolation is started, it starts from the current state.
	- Interpolation always starts at the beginning on client tick.
	- Fieldinterpolation_startis replaced withstart_interpolation, with a different meaning.
	- start_interpolationdescribes amount of ticks from the start of next client tick after receiving an update to start of interpolation.
		- For example, value 0 means that interpolation will start at the beginning of next client tick after receiving the update.
	- start_interpolationis not stored in entity data.
		- When using/datacommands, if interpolated value is updated, butstart_interpolationis not present in modified tag, interpolation will continue from the time of previous update, but with new values.
	- End of interpolation (entity fully in "current" state) is defined asinterpolation_start+interpolation_duration(in ticks).
- Every entity in family has the following fields:
	- transformation:transformationapplied to model (after normal entity orientation). Defaults to identity. Interpolated.
	- billboard: option to control if entity should pivot to face player when rendered:
		- fixed: No rotation (default).
		- verticalEntity can pivot around vertical axis.
		- horizontalEntity can pivot around horizontal axis.
		- centerEntity can pivot around center point.
	- brightness: If present, overrides light values used for rendering. Omited by default (which means rendering uses values from entity position). Object has two fields:
		- sky: Value of skylight, from 0 to 15.
		- block: Value of block light, from 0 to 15.
	- view_range: Maximum view range of this entity. Actual distance depends on client-side render distance and entity distance scalling. Default value 1.0 (roughly the same as fireball).
	- shadow_radius: Size of shadow. Defaults to 0 (no shadow). Interpolated.
	- shadow_strength: Strength of the shadow. Controls the opacity of the shadow as a function of distance to block below. Defaults to 1. Interpolated.
	- width,height: Describe size of culling bounding box. Bounding box spans verticallyytoy+heightand horizontallywidth/2in all directions from entity position. If either field is set to 0, culling is disabled. Both default to 0.
	- glow_color_override: Override glow border color. Defaults to 0 (use team color).
- Besides common fields, these entitiy types also have some exclusive fields for their different usages:
	- Item Display (item_display): Displays a single item stack (stack can be changed with commands by setting slotinventory.0).
		- item: Item stack to display. Same format as in inventory.
			- Example:{id: "minecraft:dirt", Count: 1}
		- item_display: Describes item model transform applied to item (as defined indisplaysection in model JSON)
			- Values:none(default),thirdperson_lefthand,thirdperson_righthand,firstperson_lefthand,firstperson_righthand,head,gui,ground,fixed.
	- Block Display (block_display): Displays a block state, does not display block entities, even if they would normally be created on block placement (likechest).
		- block_state: Block state to display. Same format as item held byendermen.
			- Example:{Name:"minecraft:dirt"}.
	- Text Display (text_display): Displays a text component (backgrounds uses new shader typesrendertype_text_background, andrendertype_text_background_see_through).
		- text: Text to display. Components are resolved with the context of the display entity.
		- line_width: Line width used to split lines (note: new line can be also addded with\ncharacters). Defaults to 200.
		- text_opacity: Opacity (alpha component) of rendered text. Defaults to 255. Interpolated.
		- background: Color of background. Includes alpha channel. Defaults to 0x40000000. Interpolated.
		- default_background: If true, rendering uses default text background color (same as in chat). Defaults to false.
		- shadow: Should text be displayed with shadow. Defaults to false.
		- see_through: Should text be visible through blocks. Defaults to false.
		- alignment: How text should be aligned.
			- Values:center(default),left,right.

** Interaction **
- A new type of entity that recordsattacks andinteractions. Interactions (interaction) are invisible and of a custom size, with following fields:
	- width: Width of the entity's bounding box (default1).
	- height: Height of the entity's bounding box (default1).
	- attack: An action object, records the last attack action on the entity.
	- interaction:  An action object, records the last interaction action on the entity.
	- response: Boolean specifying if interacting should trigger a response (arm swing, sound effects, etc - defaultfalse).
- Introduced action object accordingly. When an action is stored, it always has two fields:
	- player: The UUID (in standard integer array format) of the player performing the action.
	- timestamp: The timestamp of the game tick when the event happened (stored as a long).
- This made following command usage possible:
	- Execute command as the last player who attacked the entity when using/execute on attacker.
	- Execute command as the last player who interacted with the entity when using/execute on target.
- Advancement triggers also got triggered, when:
	- Interacting with an interaction entity:player_interacted_with_entity.
	- Attacking an interaction entity:player_hurt_entity.

