#### Items
** Brush **
- An item which can be used in the new archaeology system.
- Can be crafted with afeather,copper ingotandstickin a vertical line.
- Consumes 1 durability point when extracting an item from a suspicious sand successfully.
- Has no effect when brushing anything other than suspicious sand.

** Pottery Shard **
- They have pictures on them.
- They cannot be crafted and are only found by brushing suspicious sand.

** Smithing Templates **
- New item series for trimming armor and upgrading diamond armor tonetherite, with twelve varieties of armor trims.
	- Netherite Upgrade
	- Armor trims:
		- Coast Armor Trim
		- Dune Armor Trim
		- Eye Armor Trim
		- Rib Armor Trim
		- Sentry Armor Trim
		- Snout Armor Trim
		- Spire Armor Trim
		- Tide Armor Trim
		- Vex Armor Trim
		- Ward Armor Trim
		- Wild Armor Trim
- They can be obtained randomly from chests generated in their respective structures.
	- Exceptions:
		- While randomly generated in other rooms, a netherite upgrade smithing template is also guaranteed in every treasure room in abastion remnant.
		- 1 eye armor trim is guaranteed in everystrongholdlibrary chest.
		- A single tide armor trim is sometimes dropped byelder guardiansupon death.
	- Some armor trims are rarer than others, with a higher or lower chance of generating depending on the set rarity.
	- The following common armor trims always generate 2 templates in a chest when found:
		- Dune
		- Coast
		- Wild
		- Sentry
- Consumed when used to upgrade an item in thesmithing table.
- Cannot be crafted directly, but a copy can be made by crafting in the following pattern:
	- 7diamonds, in a U shape.
	- 1 block of material that the template is made out of, placed in the center slot of thecraftinggrid.
	- 1 smithing template, placed in the remaining top middle slot.

** Spawn Egg **
- Added sniffer spawn egg.

** Torchflower Seeds **
- A new type of seed, which can be planted onfarmlandand grows into a torchflower.
- Can only be obtained if a sniffer digs up a torchflower seed.
- Can be used to tempt and breedchickensandparrots.

#### Mobs
** Sniffer **
- A new passive mob, which is also the mob vote winner ofMinecraft Live 2022.
- Considered to be the first "ancient" mob.
- Very large (2×2 full blocks).
- Has 14× 7points of health.
- Cannot spawn naturally.
- Cannot be tempted or tamed.
- Often sniffs in the air and occasionally digs for torchflower seeds.
	- The digging has a cooldown of 8 minutes.
	- The last 20 dug blocks are remembered with asniffer_explored_positionsmemory, and are not eligible for digging again.
- Can be bred with torchflower seeds.
- Dropsmoss blockwhen killed.

#### Non-mob entities
** Cherry Boat **
- A new type of boat, crafted with cherry planks.

** Cherry Boat with Chest **
- A new type of boat with chest, crafted with a cherry boat and a chest.

#### World generation
** Cherry **
- A new type of tree which can be grown from cherry saplings.
- Occasionally generate with abee nest.
- Tree trunks fork or bend high up, and are then covered up in large, round canopies of cherry leaves.

** Cherry Grove **
- A newbiomewhich contains cherry trees.
- Located in themountains, likemeadows.
- Pigs,sheep, andbeescan spawn here.

#### General
** Data pack **
- Added registrytrim_patternandtrim_material, which defines trim patterns and materials respectively, to allow add them via data packs.
	- These are synchronized to clients when they join the server, but the accompanying resource pack is required on client to make them visible.
	- The paths to these textures are inferred based on the filename of the pattern json, and will try to find the textures within the same namespace as the trim pattern'snamefield.
- trim_patterndefines following data:
	- asset_id: a namespaced ID used to infer texture locations and localization.
	- template_item: the ID of the smithing template item used to apply the trim pattern.
	- description: a text component used for displaying the pattern name of an armor trim when hovering an armor item stack.
- trim_materialdefines following data:
	- asset_name: a string used as a suffix for armor trim texture locations.
	- ingredient: the ID of the ingredient item used to apply the trim material.
	- item_model_index: a float number which defines the item model override each armor item model should target to change their visuals for this material.
	- description: a text component used for displaying the material name of an armor trim when hovering an armor itemstack.
		- The style defined in this description is applied to the armor trim patterndescriptionas well.
	- override_armor_materials: an optional map of armor material to overriden color palette.
		- Map key is the armor material that this trim material wants to override with a different color palette.
		- Map value is the name of the color palette that will be used when this trim material is applied to an armor piece with the corresponding armor material.

** Particles **
- Addeddripping_cherry_leaves,falling_cherry_leaves, andlanding_cherry_leaves, which will appear underneath the cherry leaves.

** player.dat format **
- Added new flag (value 128) to HideFlags NBT field for hiding armor trim item tooltips.

** Recipe **
- Addedsmithing_transform, andsmithing_trimrecipe serializers for the updated netherite upgrade and the new armor trim recipe respectively.

** Resource pack **
- Addedpaletted_permutations, which is a new type of atlas configuration source used to dynamically generate new textures in memory based on a set of color palettes.
	- Color palettes allows to swap out the colors of a texture without having to supply all files for the variants of a texture in a resource pack.
	- This is useful for things like armor trims. It can change the their color directly without create a new texture for each color.
	- Thepaletted_permutationssource has a set of required parameters:
		- textures: a list of namespaced locations of base textures.
			- These textures will be used to generate variants of them that have been modified by color palettes.
		- palette_key: a namespaced location of a color palette key file.
			- A color palette key is used to define the set of key pixel colors we want to swap out with the color palettes defined below.
		- permutations: a map of permutations from suffix to a namespaced location of a color palette file.
			- The suffix is appended at the beginning to the resource location of the output variant textures, with a_character separating the suffix and the base texture name.
			- The color palette is a texture file with a set of pixels that are used for replacing pixels that match the color palette key in each base texture.
			- The number of pixels in each color palette must be the same as that of thepalette_keydefined for this source.
			- Key matching is done by comparing the RGB values of each pixel in thepalette_keyto the RGB values of each pixel in the color palette.
			- Alpha channel is ignored for key matching, but in the resulting texture the alpha channel is multiplied with the color palette's alpha channel.
			- Pixels that do not match thepalette_keyare copied over to the resulting texture as-is.
	- After defining apaletted_permutationssource, those namespaced output textures can be referenced in other resources in resource pack.
		- For example, if the followingpaletted_permutationssource exists:
			- {
    "type": "paletted_permutations",
    "textures": [
        "minecraft:item/leather_helmet",
        "minecraft:item/leather_chestplate",
        "minecraft:item/leather_leggings",
        "minecraft:item/leather_boots"
    ],
    "palette_key": "minecraft:colormap/color_palettes/leather_armor_color_key",
    "permutations": {
        "red": "minecraft:colormap/color_palettes/red",
        "green": "minecraft:colormap/color_palettes/green",
        "blue": "minecraft:colormap/color_palettes/blue"
    }
}
		- The resulting textures can be referenced in other resources like this:
			- {
    "textures": {
        "layer0": "minecraft:item/leather_helmet_red",
        "layer1": "minecraft:item/leather_chestplate_green",
        "layer2": "minecraft:item/leather_boots_blue"
    }
}

** Tags **
- Added following block tags:
	- #cherry_logs: containscherry_log,cherry_wood,stripped_cherry_log, andstripped_cherry_wood.
	- #sniffer_diggable_block: containsdirt,grass_block,podzol,coarse_dirt,rooted_dirt,moss_block,mud, andmuddy_mangrove_roots.
- Added following item tags:
	- #breaks_decorated_pots: contains#tools.
	- #cherry_logs: containscherry_log,cherry_wood,stripped_cherry_log, andstripped_cherry_wood.
	- #decorated_pot_shards: containsbrick,pottery_shard_archer,pottery_shard_prize,pottery_shard_arms_up, andpottery_shard_skull.
	- #noteblock_top_instruments: containszombie_head,skeleton_skull,creeper_head,dragon_head,wither_skeleton_skull,piglin_head, andplayer_head.
	- #sniffer_food: containstorchflower_seeds.
	- #trim_materials: containsamethyst_shard,copper_ingot,diamond,emerald,gold_ingot,iron_ingot,lapis_lazuli,netherite_ingot,quartz, andredstone.
	- #trim_templates: containscoast_armor_trim_smithing_template,dune_armor_trim_smithing_template,eye_armor_trim_smithing_template,rib_armor_trim_smithing_template,sentry_armor_trim_smithing_template,snout_armor_trim_smithing_template,spire_armor_trim_smithing_template,tide_armor_trim_smithing_template,vex_armor_trim_smithing_template,ward_armor_trim_smithing_template, andwild_armor_trim_smithing_template.
	- #trimmable_armor: containschainmail_boots,chainmail_chestplate,chainmail_helmet,chainmail_leggings,diamond_boots,diamond_chestplate,diamond_helmet,diamond_leggings,golden_boots,golden_chestplate,golden_helmet,golden_leggings,iron_boots,iron_chestplate,iron_helmet,iron_leggings,leather_helmet,leather_chestplate,leather_leggings,leather_boots,netherite_boots,netherite_chestplate,netherite_helmet,netherite_leggings, andturtle_helmet.

