## Experimental
These additions and changes only take effect when the 1.20 experimental data pack is enabled, the exception to this is the re-addition of bundles, which only takes effect when enabling its respective experimental data pack.

### Additions
#### Blocks
** Bamboo Mosaics **
- A plank variant exclusive to the bamboo wood set.
	- Can be crafted with 2 bamboo slabs arranged in a vertical strip.
	- The bamboo mosaic has its ownstairandslabvariant.

** Block of Bamboo and Block of Stripped Bamboo **
- Two new log-like blocks.
- Block of bamboo can be crafted from 9bambooand can be stripped like other wood logs.
- Bamboo planks crafted from block of bamboo yield only 2 planks compared to 4 for wood logs.

** Buttons, Doors, Fences, Fence Gates, Planks, Pressure Plate, Signs, Slabs, Stairs and Trapdoors **
- Added theirbamboovariants.
- Bamboo planks can be crafted using 1 block of bamboo (stripped or unstripped) to craft 2 bamboo planks.

** Chiseled Bookshelves **
- Can be crafted with 6 planks and 3 wooden slabs.
- Can store up to 6 books, books and quills, written books, and enchanted books.
	- Books in chiseled bookshelves can be added or removed from any slot by targeting the specific slot.
	- Books are directly added and removed, so there is no interface.
- Can interact withredstone comparators(giving a signal strength matching that of the slot that was last interacted with).
- Do not increase the power ofenchanting tables.
- Require aSilk Touchaxe to mine.

** Hanging Signs **
- A more expensive version of normal signs, which can be crafted with 2chainsand 6stripped logs, resulting 6 of them.
- Has a total of 10 wood variants:oak,spruce,birch,jungle,acacia,dark oak,mangrove,bamboo,crimson, andwarped.
- Can be hung up in the following ways:
	- Underneath a block that provides support in the center, like a fence or an iron bar.
		- When the hanging sign is placed underneath a non-full block, or when placed while sneaking, the chains will take on an upside-down v-shape. Signs in this configuration can be placed in 16 different angles, similar to an armor stand.
	- Underneath a full block.
		- When the hanging sign is placed underneath a full block, the chains will be on parallel sides of the sign. Signs in this configuration can be placed in the 4 cardinal directions, North, South, East, and West.
	- Attached to the solid side of a block.
		- When attached to the side of a block, its chains will be parallel, hanging onto a horizontal bar sticking out from the side of said block. Hanging signs in this configuration will display text perpendicular to the side of the block they were attached to.
	- Attached to the side or underneath another hanging sign.
		- This will display the same way is being placed underneath a non-full block.
- Cannot be placed directly on the ground without support from the side or above.
	- However, hanging signs that have a horizontal bar will not break when the supporting block is removed.
- If it is hanging underneath of a block and that block is broken, the hanging sign will also break immediately.
- Unlike regular signs, the space available for text is much smaller.
- Text can be dyed with any color of dye and tinted withglow ink sacsto make text glow.

** Piglin Head **
- Piglinswill now drop their heads when killed by a chargedcreeper.
- The piglin head will flap its ears when powered by redstone, or when worn by a player while walking, similar to theender dragonhead.

#### Items
** Bundle **
- Moved behind its own feature toggle.

** Spawn Eggs **
- Camel spawn egg.

#### Mobs
** Camel **
- A rideable entity, which can be equipped with asaddleand ridden by two players.
- Has 32× 16health points.
- Spawns naturally indesert villages.
- Can be bred withcacti, and will follow players holding a cactus on hand.
- Mobs that are 2 blocks tall and lower cannot reach the player (except spiders) when the player is riding it, due to its height.
- Can walk over 1.5 block tall obstacles (such as fences and blocks with a slab on top).
- Will randomly sit down.
	- While sitting, it is difficult to convince them to move.
- Can either walk slowly or sprint quickly.
- Can also dash forward (if the player uses the jump key while riding it) but will lose stamina for a while.
	- When it loses stamina, it cannot sprint or dash again for a few seconds.
	- A dash can extend more than 10 blocks when executed perfectly.

#### Non-mob entities
** Boats and Boat with Chests **
- Added bamboo raft and bamboo raft with chest.
	- Can be crafted with bamboo planks instead.
	- They function the same as ordinary boats, but have a unique look to them.

#### General
** Tags **
- Added theall_hanging_signsblock tag.
	- Contains theceiling_hanging_signs, andwall_hanging_signstags.
- Added the#bamboo_blocksblock and item tag.
	- Containsbamboo_block, andstripped_bamboo_block.
- Added theceiling_hanging_signsblock tag.
	- Contains all ceiling versions of hanging sign blocks.
- Added thewall_hanging_signsblock tag.
	- Contains all wall versions of hanging sign blocks.
- Added thebookshelf_booksitem tag.
	- Contains book, written book, enchanted book, and book and quill.
- Added thehanging_signsitem tag.
	- Contains all hanging sign items.
- Added#bamboo_blocks, bamboo mosaic slab and bamboo mosaic stairs to the#mineable/axeblock tag.
- Added crimson hanging sign and warped hanging sign to the#non_flammable_wooditem tag.
- Added relevant bamboo blocks to theplanks,wooden_buttons,wooden_doors,wooden_fences,wooden_pressure_plates,wooden_slabs,wooden_stairs, andwooden_trapdoorsblock and item tags.
- Added relevant bamboo blocks to thefence_gates,standing_signs, andwall_signsblock tags.
- Added relevant bamboo items to theboats,chest_boats, andsignsitem tags.
- Added bamboo fence gate to the new#fence_gatesitem tag, as the additional part when built-in data pack enabled.
- Added#all_hanging_signsto the new#all_signsblock tag, as the additional part when built-in data pack enabled.

