### Changes
#### Blocks
** Head **
- Now can be placed on top of note blocks without sneaking.

#### Items
** Armor **
- Now can be visually customized with a variety of unique trims at thesmithing table.
- Purely visual with no gameplay benefits, and can only be applied tohelmets,chestplates,leggingsandboots.
	- All trim patterns are visually the same on an armor's item icon, but the color will still change based on the trim material.
	- The name of the trim pattern will be displayed on the item's tooltip.
- Armor trim has 2 properties: pattern and material.
	- Pattern: Defined by the smithing template used to apply the trim, and represents the visual pattern of the trim.
	- Material: Defined by what ingredient is used to apply the trim, and represents the color of the trim.
		- Available ingredients:
			- Amethyst Shard
			- Copper Ingot
			- Diamond
			- Emerald
			- Gold Ingot
			- Iron Ingot
			- Lapis Lazuli
			- Nether Quartz
			- Netherite Ingot
			- Redstone Dust

#### World generation
** Desert Pyramid **
- Now includes a new room filled withsandandsuspicious sand.
	- Some sand will appear exposed, and can be found at the same height asblue terracotta.

** Desert Well **
- Now includes suspicious sand underwater.

#### Gameplay
** Advancements **
- The cherry grove is now required to be visited for the "Adventuring Time" advancement.
- The "A Seedy Place" advancement can be granted by plantingtorchflower seedsnow.
- The "The Parrots and the Bats" advancement can be granted by breeding sniffers now.
- The "Two by Two" advancement now requires breeding a sniffer.

** Smithing Table functionality **
- Redesigned: it is now a workstation for physical equipment upgrades and modifications.
- Added a slot used by smithing templates to the left of the old 2 slots.
- Smithing templates define what type of upgrade that will be making to equipment.
	- It specifies both what type of items that can upgrade, and which ingredients are valid to customize the upgrade.
- Netherite equipment crafting now also requires a netherite upgrade smithing template.
- Two menu types:
	- Old menu without the smithing template slot has been renamed tolegacy_smithing, and will be removed when armor trims are no longer an experimental feature.
	- New menu with smithing template slot was added, calledsmithing.

#### General
** Tags **
- Addedcherry_boatinto the#boatsitem tag.
- Addedcherry_buttoninto the#wooden_buttonsblock and item tags.
- Addedcherry_chest_boatinto the#chest_boatsitem tag.
- Addedcherry_doorinto the#wooden_doorsblock and item tags.
- Addedcherry_fence_gateinto the#fence_gatesblock and item tags.
- Addedcherry_fenceinto the#wooden_fencesblock and item tags.
- Addedcherry_groveinto the#is_mountainbiome tag.
- Addedcherry_hanging_signinto the#ceiling_hanging_signsblock tag and#hanging_signsitem tag.
- Addedcherry_leavesinto the#leavesblock and item tag.
- Addedcherry_leaves, andpink_petalsinto the#flowersblock and item tag.
- Addedcherry_leaves, andpink_petalsinto the#mineable/hoeblock tag.
- Addedcherry_loginto the#overworld_natural_logsblock tag.
- Added#cherry_logsinto the#logs_that_burnblock and item tag.
- Addedcherry_planksinto the#planksblock and item tags.
- Addedcherry_pressure_plateinto the#wooden_pressure_platesblock and item tags.
- Addedcherry_saplinginto the#saplingsblock and item tag.
- Addedcherry_signinto the#standing_signsblock tag and#signsitem tag.
- Addedcherry_slabinto the#wooden_slabsblock and item tags.
- Addedcherry_stairsinto the#wooden_stairsblock and item tags.
- Addedcherry_trapdoorinto the#wooden_trapdoorsblock and item tags.
- Addedcherry_wall_hanging_signinto the#wall_hanging_signsblock tag.
- Addedcherry_wall_signinto the#wall_signsblock tag.
- Addedpink_petalsinto the#inside_step_sound_blocksblock tag.
- Addedsuspicious_sandinto the#sandblock and item tag.
- Addedtorchflowerinto the#small_flowersblock and item tags.
- Addedtorchflower_cropinto the#cropsblock tag.
- Changedflower_potin the#flower_potsblock tag topotted_cherry_sapling.


