### Gameplay
** Horse, donkey, and llama breeding **
- When breeding horses and the like, the babies' speed, jump height and health are no longer biased toward the average, and are instead a variation of the average of the parents' statistics.
	- This change is intended to make horse breeding a viable way of getting great horses, if a player starts with good parents and puts in enough time andgolden carrots.

### General
** Create New World **
- The screen is now organized into three tabs:
	- The "Game" tab allows to set the world name,gamemode,difficultyand whether to allowcheats.
	- The "World" tab allows to set theworld typeandworld seed, and to toggle the generation ofstructuresand thebonus chest.
	- The "More" tab provides access to thegame rulesanddata packselection screen.
- Tabs can be switched with the keyboard by pressingCtrl+TabandCtrl+Shift+Tab.
- Specific tabs can also be navigated to by pressingCtrl+Tab Number.
- Tabs have unique visuals instead of being traditional buttons.
- The tabs align to the center of the screen, and the content aligns to the top of the screen.
- The save location for the new world shows up in a tooltip when placing the cursor over the world name.
- Added a screen to easily enable/disable experimental features.
	- Can always be found under the "More" tab.
	- In snapshots, a shortcut button can be found under the "Game" tab.
- Removed the "Import Settings" button and the corresponding "Export Settings" button in the "Edit World” screen.

** Creative Inventory **
- Addedpaintingvariants to "Functional Blocks" tab.
	- Paintings with pre-defined variant will now display author, title and size in description when hovered over.
	- The "Operator Utilities" tab contains the four paintings that are not available in Survival mode.
- Addedfire chargeto the "Ingredients" tab.

** Data pack **
- The version is now12.

** Debug screen **
- PressingF3+Swill now dump contents of dynamic textures (like atlases, maps, etc.) toscreenshots/debug/.

** Menu screen **
- The resource pack screen is now keyboard-navigatable.
- Changed howtooltipsin the menu UI are positioned.

** Options **
- Auto-Jump is now off by default.
- Texts in options buttons now have a scrolling animation whenever they are too large to fit.

** options.txt **
- RemovedheldItemTooltips.

** Predicate **
- Removedis_projectile,is_explosion,bypasses_armor,bypasses_invulnerability,bypasses_magic,is_fire,is_magic, andis_lightningfields from damage type predicates.
- A newtagsarray has been added. Each entry has two fields:
	- id: The ID of a damage type tag.
	- expected: Whether the damage is expected to have or not have the tag for the predicate to match.

** Protocol **
- Clients now reset their secure chat session state when receiving the login packet.

** Realms **
- Updated the Realms screen to be more in line with the Singleplayer and Multiplayer screens.

** Recipes **
- Thecrafting tablerecipe is unlocked immediately on creating a new world.
- Thecrossbowandsoul campfirerecipes are no longer unlocked bysticks.

** Resource pack **
- The resource pack version is now 13.
- The vanilla resource packen_uslanguage file is now sorted alphanumerically by key.
- The enchantment glint now has two separate texture files:enchanted_glint_entity.pngandenchanted_glint_item.png.

** Tags **
- Added#animals_spawnable_onto the#goats_spawnable_onblock tag.
- Renamed#only_allows_snow_and_gold_rabbitsbiome tag to the#spawns_gold_rabbits.

** UI **
- Slightly moved the search icon on the recipe book UI.

** User interface **
- Placeholder icons for empty slots such asarmoror in abrewing standhave been lightened.
	- Change has not been applied to theloommenu.
	- Setting the resource pack toprogrammer artdoes not revert this change (despite the change being made to the textures themselves).

## Experimental
These additions and changes only take effect when the 1.20 experimental data pack is enabled.

### Additions
#### Blocks
** Cherry Leaves **
- A new type of leaves.
- Have pink particles falling underneath.

** Cherry Log **
- A new type of log, as well as a stripped variant.
- Can be used to craft cherry woods and planks.
- The stripped variant can be used to craftcherry hanging sign.

** Cherry Planks **
- A new type of plank.
- Can be used to craft cherrybuttons,doors,fences,fence gates,pressure plates,signs,slabs,stairs, andtrapdoors.

** Cherry Sapling **
- A new type of sapling.
- Can be placed inflower pots.

** Cherry Wood **
- A new type of wood, as well as a stripped variant.
- Can be used to craft cherry planks.

** Decorated Pot **
- Can be crafted with any 4 pottery shards orbrickitems, in a rhombic crafting configuration.
	- The type of crafting material decides which picture will display on its respective side of the decorated pot (e.g. an "arms up" pottery shard in the top slot will display on the back).
		- Thebrick itemwill not have a picture, and will instead be blank.
- Very fragile and easy to break.
	- Will break apart into its crafting materials when broken using any block-breaking tool.
	- Will drop itself when broken using an empty hand or a block-breaking tool withSilk Touch, or when moved bypistons.

** Pink Petals **
- A new type of surface block, which generates naturally in cherry groves.
- Renewable when applying abone mealto an existing set of pink petals or to the ground of cherry groves.
- Similar tosea pickles, pink petals can be placed up to 4 in one dirt-related block.
- Can be placed directionally.
- Can be crafted intopink dye.

** Suspicious Sand **
- Looks similar tosand, with a rougher texture.
- Affected by gravity, although it vanishes when landing.
- Drops nothing when mined or moved, even if mining withSilk Touch.
- Generates naturally indesert templesanddesert wells, with different archaeological loot tables.
- Brushing the suspicious sand with abrushwill extract objects.
	- Has 4 stages of extraction (displayed through the texture), and will "recover" gradually when brushing is stopped.
	- Turns to regularsandonce extraction is done.
	- Only suspicious sand with a valid archaeological loot table (the ones naturally generated) can extract an item.

** Torchflower **
- A new type of flower, which grows from torchflower seeds after 2 stages (3 stages in total).
- Doesn't emit light, despite the name.
- If it's in its third growth stage, it will only drop itself when broken, otherwise it will drop its seed.
- Can be crafted into anorange dye.
- Can be planted in aflower pot.
- Can be used to craft asuspicious stew, giving the playerNight Vision.
- Can be used to tempt and breedbees.

