# Java Edition 1.19.3
1.19.3 is a minor update to Java Edition released on December 7, 2022.[1] This update adds experimental features scheduled for 1.20, overhauls the creative inventory, tweaks settings and tags, and much more. This version is not compatible with 1.19.2 servers.

This update was originally planned to be released on December 6, 2022, but it had been postponed and released on December 7, 2022.

## Contents
- 1 Additions
	- 1.1 Items
	- 1.2 Command format
	- 1.3 Gameplay
	- 1.4 General
- 2 Changes
	- 2.1 Blocks
	- 2.2 Items
	- 2.3 Mobs
	- 2.4 Non-mob entities
	- 2.5 World generation
	- 2.6 Command format
	- 2.7 Gameplay
	- 2.8 General
- 3 Experimental
	- 3.1 Additions
		- 3.1.1 Blocks
		- 3.1.2 Items
		- 3.1.3 Mobs
		- 3.1.4 Non-mob entities
		- 3.1.5 General
	- 3.2 Changes
		- 3.2.1 Blocks
		- 3.2.2 Gameplay
- 4 Fixes
- 5 Video
- 6 Trivia
- 7 References

## Additions
### Items
** Spawn Eggs **
- Added spawn eggs for ender dragon, iron golem, snow golem and wither.
	- Ender dragon and wither spawn eggs will only be available through commands to prevent accidental destruction of player builds.

### Command format
** /fillbiome **
- A new command to change biome entries for an area.
	- Because biomes are not stored per-block, affected positions may not match input precisely.
- Syntax:/fillbiome [<from>] [<to>] [<biome>] replace [<filter>]
	- from: One corner of the area to fill.
	- to: The other corner of the area to fill.
	- biome: The biome to set.
	- filter: A biome or biome tag to replace.

### Gameplay
** Game rules **
- AddedblockExplosionDropDecay,mobExplosionDropDecayandtntExplosionDropDecay.
	- When set tofalse, all blocks drop loot.
	- When set totrue, blocks drop loot randomly depending on how far from the explosion center.
	- Defaults tofalsefor TNT,truefor block and mob.
- AddedsnowAccumulationHeight.
	- When it is snowing, this game rule determines the maximum number of snow layers that can be accumulated in each block.
	- Defaults to1.
	- Set to0makes no snow form at all.
	- Set to8or above lets snow form up to the level of a full block.
- AddedwaterSourceConversionandlavaSourceConversion.
	- When set totrue, allows new sources of that fluid to form.
	- Defaults totruefor water andfalsefor lava.
- AddedglobalSoundEvents, controlling whether certain gameplay moments are heard by all players regardless of location, defaults totrue.

### General
** Chat **
- Added drafts for player reports, which can keep player reports temporarily while connected to a server.
	- When exiting the Player Reporting screen, the report can be either discarded or kept as a draft.
		- The draft will always be kept if the screen was forcefully closed (e.g. player dying).
	- Draft reports are kept until the player leaves the current server or world.
		- When leaving, the player will be prompted to either discard or finish and send the report.

** Data packs **
- Added a subsection calledchat_type.
- Added a subsection calleddatapacks.
	- Contains Vanilla data packs that enable certain features.
- The Vanilla world generation data pack is now visible within the game's jar.
	- This means categories such asdimension_typeandworldgenare now visible, along with their contents.

** Feature Flags **
- Option to enable or disable certain groups of game elements (i.e. blocks, entities, and items).
	- Enabled viadata packs.
		- New pack metadata section calledfeatures, containing enabled feature flags in list namedenabled.
- Game elements controlled by feature flags are hardcoded and stored per world.
- Built-in data packs now enable features and provide other things such as associated recipes and advancements.
- Feature flags can affect:
	- Blocks
		- Disabled blocks are not recognized by commands, won't spawn in structures, won't be loaded as part of entities, and can't be interacted with by players.
	- Entities
		- Disabled entities are not recognized by commands, will not spawn or load in the world, and spawn eggs for disabled entities will not function.
	- Items
		- Disabled items are not recognized by commands, are hidden from the creative menu, can't be used by players for interacting or attacking, and recipes and loot tables cannot create disabled items.

** Languages **
- Added Nahuatl.
- Added Rusyn.

** Options **
- Added a new "Panorama Scroll Speed" accessibility option.
- Added Operator Items Tab option in the Controls menu, which is off by default.
- Added telemetry data collection screen.
	- Displays information about the type of data that is sent.
	- The level of data sent can be controlled between "Minimal" and "All".
		- "Minimal" sends only the required data.
		- "All" sends the required data, as well as optional data.
	- The default data level is "Minimal".

** Player **
- Added new default skins for offline players.
	- The old skins have been removed, with the new skins being located on a new folder.

** Predicate **
- Added new entity sub-predicates for some entity types with variants:
	- axolotl
		- variant- values:lucy,wild,gold,cyan,blue.
	- boat
		- Works for allboatsand allboat with chests.
		- variant- values:oak,spruce,birch,jungle,acacia,dark_oak,mangrove,bamboo.
	- fox
		- variant- values:red,snow.
	- mooshroom
		- variant- values:red,brown.
	- painting
		- variant- values: seepainting_variantregistry.
	- rabbit
		- variant- values:brown,white,black,white_splotched,gold,salt,evil.
	- horse
		- variant- values:white,creamy,chestnut,brown,black,gray,dark_brown.
		- Markings are separate value and not matched.
	- llama
		- variant- values:creamy,white,brown,gray.
	- villager
		- variant- values: seevillager_typeregistry.
		- Also works forzombie villagers.
		- Profession and level are separate values and not matched.
	- parrot
		- variant- values:red_blue,blue,green,yellow_blue,gray.
	- tropical_fish
		- variant- values:kob,sunstreak,snooper,dasher,brinely,spotty,flopper,stripey,glitter,blockfish,betty,clayfish.

** server.properties **
- Addedinitial-enabled-packsandinitial-disabled-packs.
	- Allows for which packs to be selected to load during world creation.
	- initial-enabled-packscontains a list of packs to be enabled (feature packs need to be explicitly enabled).
	- initial-disabled-packscontains a list of packs that will not be enabled automatically.
		- Data packs added after world creation will be disabled if they require features that are not enabled for the loaded world.

** Splashes **
- Added the following splash texts:
	- "You are valid!"
	- "I'm glad you're here!"
	- "You are welcome here!"
	- "Your gender is valid!"
	- "Contains infinite genders!"
	- "Made with lave!"
- Many of these new splashes reference gender identity.

** Tags **
- Added theall_signsblock tag.
	- Contains#signs.
- Added thecreeper_ignitersitem tag.
	- Containsflint_and_steel, andfire_charge.
- Added thefence_gatesitem tag.
	- Containsacacia_fence_gate,birch_fence_gate,dark_oak_fence_gate,jungle_fence_gate,oak_fence_gate,spruce_fence_gate,crimson_fence_gate,warped_fence_gate, andmangrove_fence_gate.
- Added theinvalid_spawn_insideblock tag.
	- Containsend portalandend gateway.

