## Changes
### Blocks
** Froglight **
- Sounds when placing or breaking the block are now less loud.

** Jukebox **
- Now emits a note particle above them while playing amusic disc, to matchBedrock Edition.
- Now emits a redstone signal of 15 while playing amusic disc.
- Droppersandhopperscan now interact with it.

** Sculk Sensor **
- Theitem_interact_finishevent now has a vibration frequency of 2 instead of 14.
- Are now able to detect more actions included in several existing and new game events, such as the following:
	- block_change:
		- Using shears oncave vines,kelp,twisting vinesandweeping vines.
		- Picking an item from acave vineor alectern.
		- Interacting with items placed on both types ofitem frames.
		- Tramplingfarmlandinto regulardirt.
		- Charging up arespawn anchor.
		- Interacting with acomposter.
	- block_place:
		- Turtleandfrogslaying eggs.
	- container_close:
		- Closing aminecart with chestor aboat with chest.
	- entity_damage:
		- Breakingshulkerbullets.
	- entity_dismount(new game event, with signal 6):
		- Dismount any passenger from any vehicle.
	- entity_interact:
		- Dyeing asheep.
		- Attaching or removing aleadfrom an entity.
	- entity_mount(new game event, with signal 7):
		- Mount any passenger to any vehicle.

### Items
** Chestplate and Elytra **
- Now can swap the equipped gear byusingthem.

** Potions and Tipped Arrows **
- Changed colors of following potions (all forms) and tipped arrows:
	- Fire Resistance
	- Harming
	- Invisibility
	- Leaping
	- Luck
	- Night Vision
	- Poison
	- Slowness
	- Strength
	- Swiftness
	- Turtle Master
	- Water Breathing
- Potions no longer have an enchantment glint due to it obscuring the color of the potion contents.

** Shield **
- A sound is now played when a shield is placed into the offhand slot.

### Mobs
** Donkey, Mule, Skeleton Horse, and Zombie Horse **
- Changed their textures.

** Vex **
- Now use a separate charging animation when empty-handed.

### Non-mob entities
** Armor Stand **
- Now preserve custom names when placed and broken.

** Minecart with Hopper **
- No longer aggravatespiglinswhen opened.

### Command format
** Chat component **
- Added an optionalfallbackfield totranslatetext components.
	- The new field is a string that will be used in place of translation if it is missing.
	- Iffallbackis missing, the old behavior (i.e. using the key itself as the translation) is preserved.
- Out-of-bound arguments intranslateformats are no longer silently ignored.

** /clone **
- Now supports specifying the source and target dimensions, new syntax:
	- /clone [from <sourceDimension>] <begin> <end> [to <targetDimension>] <destination> ...
		- sourceDimension: ID of dimension to clone from.
		- targetDimension: ID of dimension to clone to.

** /data **
- New sourcestringavailable, to read a value as text and resulting in a string value, syntax:
	- ... (insert <index>|prepend|append|set|merge) string (block <sourcePos>|entity <source>|storage <source>) [<sourcePath>] [<start>] [<end>]
		- start: index of first character to include at the start of the string.
		- end: index of the first character to exclude at the end of the string.

** /effect **
- infiniteis now a valid option for effect durations.
	- Infinite effect durations show up as "∞" in the player inventory view.

** /execute **
- On(if|unless), new conditions available:
	- ... loaded <pos>: checks if the position given is fully loaded (in regard to both blocks and entities).
		- pos: block position to check.
	- ... dimension <dimension>: checks if the execution is in a matching dimension.
		- dimension: a dimension ID.
- New sub-command:on, for selecting entities based on relation to the current executing entity, syntax:
	- ... on (attacker|controller|leasher|owner|passengers|target|vehicle) -> execute
		- attacker: last entity that damaged the executing entity in the previous 5 seconds.
		- controller: entity that is controlling the executing entity (for example: first passenger in a boat).
		- leasher: entity leading the executing entity with a leash (might be a leash knot in case of being attached to a fence).
		- owner: owner of the executing entity, if it is a tameable animal (like cats, wolves or parrots).
		- passengers: all entities directly riding the executing entity (no sub-passengers).
		- target: attack target for the executing entity.
		- vehicle: entity that the executing entity is riding.
	- If the relation is not applicable to the executing entity or there are no entities matching it, selector returns zero elements.
- New sub-command:summon, with the following syntax:
	- ... summon <entity> -> execute
	- This sub-command is for summoning new entity and binding context (@s) to it. Meant to simplify entity setup and reduce need for raw NBT editing.
- New sub-command:positioned over, for finding positions on top of a heightmap. Changes the height of the execution position to be on top of the given heightmap. Syntax:
	- ... positioned over <heightmap> -> execute
		- <heightmap>: A heightmap records the highest position in a column of blocks according to some criteria. Available options:
			- world_surface: Any non-air block.
			- motion_blocking: Any motion blocking material (e.g. ignores flowers and grass).
			- motion_blocking_no_leaves: Any non-leaf motion blocking material.
			- ocean_floor: Any non-fluid motion blocking material.
- Added a new relationoriginfor/execute on, which can select:
	- Shooter, if the executing entity is aprojectile(likearrow,fireball,trident,firework, thrownpotion, etc.)
	- Thrower, if the executing entity is anitem.
	- Source of effects, if the executing entity is anarea effect cloud.
	- Igniter, if the executing entity is aprimed TNT.
	- Summoner, if the executing entity isevoker fangsor avex.

** /title **
- All time arguments to/title timesare now time durations and work witht,s, anddsuffixes.

** /weather **
- The duration of the weather change now matches the game's regular weather cycle if not specified.
- Thedurationparameter is now a time duration in ticks and works witht,s, anddsuffixes.
	- To retain existing functionality, the player needs to add anssuffix to pre-existing commands.

