## Changes
### Blocks
** Chorus flower **
- Mobs no longer spawn on this block.

** Fence Gates **
- No longer provide center support beneath them.
	- For example, hanging signs cannot be placed under fence gates.

** Invisible blocks **
- Barriersandstructure voidsno longer produce particles when broken, for consistency with the light block.

** Scaffolding **
- Changed its texture.
- Mobs no longer spawn on this block.

** Shulker Box **
- Now will pop off blocks attached (such astorches) to the opened faces when opening.
	- While open, blocks which require support cannot be placed on these open faces.

** Spawners **
- No longer have a default mob spawn type when placed by a player, which was a pig previously.
- Will not emit fire particles when a mob spawn type has not been defined.
- Renamed to Monster Spawner to matchBedrock Edition, and removed purple text color.
- Pick-block now works for spawner blocks.
- The mob type is now displayed in the hover description of a spawner item stack.
	- If a mob type has not been defined yet, the hover description will describe how to set it.

### Items
** Bucket **
- Water buckets can now be emptied into waterlogged blocks.

** Spawn Eggs **
- Changed the colors of polar bear spawn egg, to distinguish it from the ghast spawn egg.

### Mobs
** Creepers **
- Can now be ignited byusingafire chargeon it.

** Enderman **
- Now only spawn at light level 7 and below inthe Nether, instead of 11 and below, to nerf certain portal-based mob farms.
- Blocks carried by endermen now use loot tables to generate drops when killed.
	- This is done by simulating the block being mined using aSilk Touchdiamond axe.

** Rabbits **
- Now always drop oneraw rabbitwhen killed, or onecooked rabbitwhen killed by fire.

** Skeleton and Wither Skeleton **
- Now only spawn at light level 7 and below inthe Nether, instead of 11 and below, to nerf certain portal-based mob farms.
- The process of converting tostraycan be interrupted now.

** Turtles **
- Now have a 5 minute cooldown afterbreeding.

** Vex **
- Changed its model and textures.
	- Retains a slightly oversized hitbox to make it easier to fight.

### Non-mob entities
** Minecart with Spawners **
- No longer have a default mob spawn type when placed by a player, which was a pig previously.
- Will not emit fire particles when a mob spawn type has not been defined.
- Renamed to Minecart with Monster Spawner.

### World generation
** Stronghold **
- The placement code has been changed to be more efficient, causing stronghold positions to shift.
	- They are still placed in concentric rings, but their positions in the rings may change by a few degrees.

### Command format
** /execute **
- Can now be conditional on biomes.
- Syntax:/execute if|unless biome [<pos>] [<biome>]

** /publish **
- Now has new arguments to enable commands and set the default game mode.
	- New syntax:/publish [<allowCommands>] [<gamemode>] [<port>]

### Gameplay
** Advancements **
- The advancement "Birthday Song" is now a regular advancement instead of a challenge.

** Creative Inventory **
- The ordering of tabs and the contents in the Creative Inventory have been overhauled to make the experience of finding relevant blocks and items easier.
	- Blocks and items have been moved into categories that fit them better.
	- Blocks are now ordered by their material as much as possible.
		- For example, all oak blocks and variants are now next to each other.
	- Some items can now be found in more than one tab.
	- Various tabs have been renamed or collapsed into others.
		- The new tabs for blocks are Building Blocks, Natural Blocks, Functional Blocks, Redstone Blocks, and Colored Blocks.
		- The new tabs for items are Tools & Utilities, Combat, Food & Drinks, Ingredients, and Spawn Eggs.
	- The search tab now lists items sequentially grouped by the other tabs.
		- For example, items found in building blocks will always appear before items in redstone blocks.
- Changed the icons of creative tabs for better color coding as well as to show most iconic visuals.
- Petrified Oak Slab has been removed from the Creative Inventory, but can still be accessed through commands.
- Operator-only blocks and items can now be found in the Operator Utilities tab when a player has both the "Operator Items Tab" option in Controls menu set toONand the required operator permissions.
	- This includes thebarrier, all variants ofcommand blocks,debug stick,jigsaw block,light block(level 0-15),minecart with command block,structure void, and thestructure block.
	- The tab is hidden if operator permissions are lost while inventory is open.
- Tooltips for all items in Creative Menu outside single-category tabs will show categories where this item can be found.
	- Previously this only happened on the search tab.
- The textures for the tabs are now skinnier.

** Pause Screen **
- The 'Game Menu' text heading has been moved to the top of the screen instead of being just right above the buttons.

** Spectator **
- "Teleport to Team Member" option in spectator menu now only shows up for teams with viable target players.

