# Java Edition 1.20.3
1.20.3 is a minor update to Java Edition, released on December 5, 2023,[1] which improves shields, adds new functionality for decorated pots, introduces a new look for bats, adds the /tick command, changes chat component serialization, and fixes bugs, alongside an experimental toggle for features that will be included in the next major update.[2][3]

## Contents
- 1 Additions
	- 1.1 Command format
	- 1.2 General
- 2 Changes
	- 2.1 Blocks
	- 2.2 Items
	- 2.3 Mobs
	- 2.4 Non-mob entities
	- 2.5 Command format
	- 2.6 General
- 3 Experimental
	- 3.1 Additions
		- 3.1.1 Blocks
		- 3.1.2 Items
		- 3.1.3 Mobs
		- 3.1.4 Non-mob entities
		- 3.1.5 World generation
		- 3.1.6 General
	- 3.2 Changes
		- 3.2.1 Gameplay
		- 3.2.2 General
- 4 Fixes
- 5 Video
- 6 References

## Additions
### Command format
** /tick **
- A new administrative and debugging command which allows the player to control the ticking flow and measure the performance of the game.
	- Requires elevated permissions (admins and above), and so it is not by default available incommand blocksanddata packs.
	- Syntaxes:
		- /tick query
			- Outputs the current target ticking rate, with information about the tick times performance.
		- /tick rate <rate>
			- Sets a custom target ticking rate to the specified value. The valueratemust be greater than1.0and lower than10000.0.
		- /tick freeze
			- Freezes all gameplay elements, except forplayersand anyentitya player isriding.
		- /tick step <time>
			- Only works when the game is frozen. It runs the game for the specified number of ticks and then freezes the game again.This allows to step through the game a set amount of ticks at a time.
			- The parameter is optional. The default value is1.
		- /tick step stop
			- Stops the current stepping process, and re-freezes the game.
		- /tick unfreeze
			- Unfreezes the game and resumes all gameplay elements.
		- /tick sprint <time>
			- Runs the game while ignoring the set ticking target rate for the specified number of ticks. At the end of the sprint, the game will resume the previous ticking target and display performance information about the tick times while sprinting.
		- /tick sprint stop
			- Stops the current/tick sprint, and resumes the previous ticking target.

### General
** Experiments **
- Added the "Update 1.21" experimental toggle (update_1_21data pack).

** Game rule **
- AddedmaxCommandForkCount, to control the maximum number of forks (contexts) that can be created during one tick. Applies to command blocks and functions. Defaults to65536.
- AddedplayersNetherPortalDefaultDelay, to control time (ingame ticks) that a player needs to stand in anether portalbefore changing dimensions, while in Survival and Adventure mode. Defaults to80.
- AddedplayersNetherPortalCreativeDelay, to control time (in game ticks) that a player needs to stand in a nether portal before changing dimensions, while in Creative mode. Defaults to1.
- AddedprojectilesCanBreakBlocks, to control whether impact projectiles will destroy blocks that are destructible by them (i.e.chorus flowers,pointed dripstoneanddecorated pots). Defaults totrue.

** Loading screen **
- Added a new screen for handling corrupted level files.
	- It gives the player the option to restore a backup, and a quick link to the bug tracker for reporting a bug about it.

** Options **
- Added "Hide Splash Texts" in accessibility options, which allows thesplashin the main menu to be hidden.

** options.txt **
- AddedhideSplashTexts, defaults tofalse.

** Particles **
- Added newdust_plume,gust,gust_dust,trial_spawner_detectionandwhite_smokeparticle types.

** Tags **
- Added following damage type tag:
	- #can_break_armor_stand: containsplayer_attack, andplayer_explosion.
		- Used for damage types that can incrementally knock down armor stands.
- Added following entity tags:
	- #can_breathe_under_water: contains#undead,axolotl,frog,guardian,elder_guardian,turtle,glow_squid,cod,pufferfish,salmon,squid,tropical_fish,tadpole, andarmor_stand.
		- Used to disable drowning.
	- #undead: contains#skeletons,#zombies,wither, andphantom.
	- #zombies: containszombie_horse,zombie,zombie_villager,zombified_piglin,zoglin,drowned, andhusk.

## Changes
### Blocks
** Decorated Pot **
- Now can store up to a single stack of items.
	- Hoppers,minecart with hoppersanddropperscan now insert and/or extract items from them.
	- Comparatorscan now read the number of items in them.
	- Playerscan interact with them and insert items into them.
		- Player interactions with them cause them to wobble and trigger a vibration frequency of 11.
	- They have no GUI, and need to be broken to retrieve their content by players.
- Now can be smashed by projectiles, which cause them to shatter and drop their contents.
- Now has new sounds for breaking, shattering and being stepped on.
- Now can stack up to 64.
- Now appears in the Redstone tab of the Creative inventory.
- Now, when blockstatecrackedset totrue, decorated pots will always shatter when broken.
- Now can utilize loot tables and will read from theLootTabletag key.

** Grass **
- Renamed Grass to Short Grass.
- The ID has been changed fromgrasstoshort_grass.

** Jigsaw Block **
- Added two new input fields in the edit screen.
	- Selection Priority
		- When the parent piece is being processed for connections, this controls the order in which this jigsaw block attempts to connect to its target piece.
		- Jigsaws will be processed in descending priority order and randomly within the same priority.
	- Placement Priority
		- When this jigsaw block connects to a piece, this is the order in which that piece is processed for connections in the wider structure.
		- Pieces will be processed in descending priority order with the default insertion order breaking ties within the same priority.
	- This functionality has been added to support the ability for jigsaw structures to generate branches in a depth-first order, as well as give finer control over ordering of connections.
	- All existing jigsaw blocks will default their selection and placement priority to 0, resulting in the same behavior as before these two configurable values were introduced.
- Increased maximum value of structure variablesizefrom 7 to 20.

** Monster Spawner **
- Now renders their inner faces when looking inside.

