### General
** Custom structure **
- Changes to structure type definitions (data/minecraft/worldgen/structure):
	- Added optionalpool_aliaseslist to jigsaw structures.
	- Aliases represent the possibility to rewire jigsaw pool connections by redirecting pool references on individual structure instances.
	- Alias variants are represented intypeand is one of:
		- direct: 1:1 mapping from an alias to a new pool.
			- alias: Pool to replace.
			- target: Pool to replace with.
		- random: 1:n mapping where a pool fromnis randomly selected for the structure instance.
			- alias: Pool to replace.
			- targets: Randomized list of candidate pools to replacealiaswith.
		- random_group
			- groups: Each group is a randomized list of above alias types.
			- Only one group is selected per structure instance.
			- This enables modelling selections such as "if pool X is replaced with X1, also replace pool Y with Y1".

** Data pack **
- The version is now26.

** Entity format **
- In NBT format for entity typetnt:
	- Addedblock_state.
		- This field allows replacement of rendered block model.
	- RenamedFusetofuse.
- In NBT format for entity typearrow, andspectral_arrow:
	- Addeditem.
		- This field is the item that will be picked up.
- In NBT format for entity typetrident:
	- RenamedTridenttoitem.

** Processor list **
- Addedtrial_chambers_copper_bulb_degradation.

** Raw JSON text format **
- Plain-text chat components (text, no sibilings, no stylings) are now always serialized as string instead of{"text": "your text"}.
- Chat components now serialize to NBT when sent over network.
	- Components of typenbtnow havesourcefield with allowed values:entity,block, andstorage.
- Chat components now have an optional type value (allowed values:text,translatable,score,selector,nbt, andkeybind) to speed up parsing and improve error checking.
- idfield inshow_entityhoverEventstyle now also accepts UUID as an array of 4 integers.
- Numeric and boolean arguments fortranslatecomponent are no longer converted to string.
- The following JSON component representations are no longer accepted:
	- null
	- []
- Errors in following style fields are no longer silently ignored:
	- color
	- clickEvent
	- hoverEvent
	- hoverEvent[action=show_entity].contents.name
	- hoverEvent[action=show_item].contents.tag

** Realms **
- Realms are now available in Snapshots, Pre-Releases, and Release Candidates.
	- Any player who has an active Realms subscription is eligible to create a free Snapshot Realm.
	- Snapshot Realms will be separate from the regular Realms to prevent any issues from impacting regular Realms.
- The version of the last played world on a Realm is displayed in the Realms list.
- Experiments are available for newly created worlds.

** Resource pack **
- The version is now22.
- Added block model, item model and block state definitions forcrafter.
- Added GUI container texture and sprites forcrafter.
- Addedwhite_smokeparticle definition.
- bat.pnghas been updated for the new bat model.
- Added block models, items models and block state definitions for the following blocks:
	- chiseled_copper,exposed_chiseled_copper,weathered_chiseled_copper,oxidized_chiseled_copper,copper_grate,exposed_copper_grate,weathered_copper_grate,oxidized_copper_grate,copper_bulb,exposed_copper_bulb,weathered_copper_bulb,oxidized_copper_bulb,copper_door,exposed_copper_door,weathered_copper_door,oxidized_copper_door,copper_trapdoor,exposed_copper_trapdoor,weathered_copper_trapdoor,oxidized_copper_trapdoor,tuff_stairs,tuff_slab,tuff_wall,chiseled_tuff,polished_tuff,polished_tuff_stairs,polished_tuff_slab,polished_tuff_wall,tuff_bricks,tuff_brick_stairs,tuff_brick_slab,tuff_brick_wall, andchiseled_tuff_bricks.
- Added unique sprites for the following blocks:
	- chiseled_copper,exposed_chiseled_copper,weathered_chiseled_copper,oxidized_chiseled_copper,copper_grate,exposed_copper_grate,weathered_copper_grate,oxidized_copper_grate,copper_bulb,exposed_copper_bulb,weathered_copper_bulb,oxidized_copper_bulb,copper_door,exposed_copper_door,weathered_copper_door,oxidized_copper_door,copper_trapdoor,exposed_copper_trapdoor,weathered_copper_trapdoor,oxidized_copper_trapdoor,chiseled_tuff,polished_tuff,tuff_bricks, andchiseled_tuff_bricks.
- uniformfont has been updated to use Unifont 15.1.04 (from 15.0.06).
- The only supported texture format is now.png.
- Changes to downloaded/world resource pack handling.
	- Changes apply to world resource packs (resources.zip), Realms resource packs and resource packs controlled by dedicated servers.
- UI Download screen has been replaced with a toast.
- World resource pack application will start together with chunk loading.
- Downloaded packs are now stored in downloads directory (with different file organization than oldserver-resource-packs)
	- Files in this directory are no longer automatically cleaned (previously only up to 10 packs were kept).
	- Additionally, inside this directory there is also log filelog.jsonthat stores information about downloaded files for debug purposes.
- Downloaded packs now have unique id (GUID/UUID) that can be used to differentiate them.
	- This value for dedicated server pack can be configured with theresource-pack-idoption inserver.properties.
	- If the value is missing, it will be generated based on URL.
	- If hash of a pack is not set, this pack will be redownloaded before every application.
	- Previously, if hash was missing, the latest downloaded version of a pack was applied.
- In local storage, only up to 20 server resource packs are cached.
- Client now sends additional updates about packs (like download success).

** Tags **
- Addedfirework_rocketinto theimpact_projectilesentity tag.
- Addedskeleton_horseinto#skeletonsentity tag.

** Telemetry **
- Small tweaks to the telemetry data collection screen, such as a box for allowing or denying collection of optional data.

** General **
- Some additional options are added for 3rd-party servers software:
	- Client can now accept multiple server resource packs.
	- New packet was added to un-apply server resource packs.
	- Resource packs are no longer cleaned when entering configuration phase.

## Experimental
These additions and changes only take effect when the Update 1.21 experimental data pack is enabled.

### Additions
#### Blocks
** Chiseled Copper **
- Have 8 variants in 4 oxidation levels, waxed or not waxed.
- Can be crafted both incrafting tableandstonecutter:
	- When in crafting table, consume 2cut copper slabsfrom the same type, resulting in 1 chiseled copper with the same type.
	- When in stonecutter, consume 1block of copper, resulting in 4 chiseled copper, or 1cut copper, resulting in 1 chiseled copper; all from the same type.

** Copper Bulb **
- A light-emitting block that can toggle its light emission through redstone pulses.
- Have 8 variants in 4 oxidation levels, waxed or not waxed.
- Can be crafted in crafting table with a cross pattern, by 3 blocks of copper from the same type, 1blaze rodin the center slot, and 1redstone dustin the bottom slot, resulting in 1 copper bulb with the same type.
- They emit less light the more oxidized they are. From less oxidized to most oxidized, they emit block light levels of 15, 12, 8, and 4, respectively.
- While powered by a redstone signal, a redstone crystal in the center of them will glow.
- They have following properties:
	- Only toggle their light on or off when receiveing a redstone pulse. Their state will not be changed if the source of the redstone pulse is removed.
	- When the light is on, redstone comparators will read a redstone signal strength of 15.
	- Don't conduct redstone power.

** Copper Door and Copper Trapdoor **
- Have 8 variants in 4 oxidation levels, waxed or not waxed.
- Works like wooden doors in that they can be opened and closed by the player as well as redstone.
- Can be crafted as other doors, with blocks of copper from the same type (instead ofingots, as iniron doors).

** Copper Grate **
- A new type of decorative block unique to the copper family.
- Have 8 variants in 4 oxidation levels, waxed or not waxed.
- Can be crafted both in crafting table and stonecutter:
	- When in crafting table, consume 4 blocks of copper from the same type in rhombic pattern, resulting in 1 copper grate with the same type.
	- When in stonecutter, consume 1 block of copper, resulting in 4 copper grate from the same type.
- They are transparent, so they allow light to pass through and cannot conduct redstone, prevent mob spawning on top of them, and do not suffocate mobs who end up with their head inside them.
- Can bewaterlogged.
	- Acts similarly to waterloggedmangrove roots; water will not flow out of any of the block's faces.

** Crafter **
- A variant ofcrafting table, can be crafted with fiveiron ingots, a crafting table, tworedstone dusts, and adropperin the crafting table.
- Crafters can be oriented in any direction when placed.
- Apickaxecan increase the speed of mining them.
- Have a user interface similar to crafting table.
	- Have 3×3 interactable crafting grid.
	- Their crafting grid slots are toggleable, meaning that the player can change the behavior of a slot by clicking or pressing on a slot with an empty hand.
		- A toggled slot cannot hold any items and therefore cannot have items placed into it by other blocks such ashoppersand droppers.
		- A toggled slot can be toggled off by player, whether clicked directly or holding item(s), pressing slot keys associated with an empty or a not empty hotbar slot.
	- Unlike the crafting table, the slots display a preview of the crafted item which will be crafted and ejected on the next redstone pulse, but cannot be manually taken out by the player.
	- The user interface is shared between all players interacting with them, meaning that multiple players can interact with them at the same time, similar tochestsand hoppers.
	- The user interface does not have arecipe bookto provide help, so the player must know the recipes.
- The crafter ejects one crafted item at a time when powered by a new redstone pulse, a redstone signal that is not a continuous signal.
	- Upon receiving this new signal, crafters eject the recipe result from the front face.
	- All the result items will be ejected together when the output result has multiple type of items.
- They can interact with hoppers and droppers, to input/output automatically.
	- Hoppers can be used to both insert and pull items out of them.
	- Droppers can be used to insert items into them.
	- Moving items in from another block with a hopper or a dropper prioritizes filling items into slots, by following these rules:
		- If there is a toggled slot, skipped.
		- If there is not a toggled slot, crafters prioritize the first empty slot from left-to-right and top-to-bottom.
		- If there is not a toggled slot, and there are no empty slots, crafters prioritize the smallest stack of the same item. If there are multiple possible stacks, pick the first from left-to-right and top-to-bottom.
	- If failed to select a slot, hoppers and droppers will not take any action.
- When read by aredstone comparator, the redstone signal strength is 0 to 9, where each non-empty or toggled slot adds 1 strength.

** Trial Spawner **
- Trial spawner is a new variant ofmonster spawnersthat ejects rewards upon completion and can have variable levels of challenge in multiplayer.
- The challenge level will increase for each new player a trial spawner notices nearby.
	- Challenge level will not decrease until it is reset during a trial spawner's cooldown.
- Unlike normal spawners, a trial spawner will spawn a limited number of mobs proportional to its current challenge level.
	- It can only spawn a mob at positions that are within line of sight.
	- It can spawn a mob regardless of any light level requirement the mob has.
	- Spawned mobs are persistent and will not despawn.
- Once all mobs are defeated, the trial spawner will eject a set of rewards proportional to the current challenge level.
	- After the rewards have been ejected, the trial spawner goes into cooldown for 30 minutes during which it will no longer spawn mobs.
- Trial spawners cannot be crafted nor obtained by players in Survival - instead, they can be found naturally placed throughout trial chambers.
- Trial spawners are extremely slow to mine and resistant to explosions, and will not drop even withSilk Touch.
- When placed in Creative, trial spawners have no mob type set by default.
	- The mob type can be set by interacting with it while holding a spawn egg.
- Creative and Spectator players cannot be detected or noticed by trial spawners.

** Tuff family **
- Added following blocks:
	- Tuff Stairs
	- Tuff Slab
	- Tuff Wall
	- Chiseled Tuff
	- Polished Tuff
	- Polished Tuff Stairs
	- Polished Tuff Slab
	- Polished Tuff Wall
	- Tuff Bricks
	- Tuff Brick Stairs
	- Tuff Brick Slab
	- Tuff Brick Wall
	- Chiseled Tuff Bricks
- Can be crafted in crafting table or stonecutter like others.

