### Items
** Arrows **
- Now keep theirCustomNameafter being shot and picked up.
- Special arrows, such asspectral arrows, no longer revert to regular arrows when shot and picked up.

** Ender Pearl **
- Thrown ender pearls produce a teleportation sound on impact.

** Shield **
- When a player is blocking with a shield, the arm with the shield now follows the direction the player is looking at, when viewed from third person perspective.
- Will now block damage while the player faces straight up.

### Mobs
** Bat **
- Their model, animations, and texture have been updated.

### Non-mob entities
** General **
- The name of them will now be shown if looked at and aCustomNameis set, or always displayed ifCustomNameVisibleis set, similar to living entities.

### Command format
** Function **
- /functioncommand has been changed to better accommodate new/returncommand.
- Functions no longer have any result unless they use/returnor there was an error during lookup or instantiation.
	- That means/functioncommand will no longer return (or even display) the number of commands run during execution.
	- Error conditions:
		- Calling non-existent function.
		- Calling empty function tag.
		- Macro instantiation failure.
- "Result" in this context means values that would be stored with/execute store.
- The previous behavior where every command in a function would perform store if a function was called with/execute store ... run functionis removed.
	- That means that a single call tofunctionwill store at most once (zero times if/returnwas not called).
	- For function tags with multiple entries, function results will be accumulated, but partial results will be stored at the end of every function.
- Existing limits for functions have been refined to accommodate new execution rules and prevent a wider range of exploits:
	- Limits apply even if run from command line (so it will now always behave as if they were placed in a function).
		- For example, all functions called by/execute as @e run functionwill count towards the same limit.
		- Executions from command blocks still count as separate ones.
	- LimitmaxCommandChainLengthfor functions will now count "operations" like:
		- Execution of command for a single context.
		- Execution of a stage in/execute(no matter how many contexts were modified).
		- Invocation of function.
	- A new limit with game rulemaxCommandForkCountnow restricts the total amount of context that can be created by single state of functions like/execute.
		- Example: if there are 5 entities in world,/execute as @ecreates 5 contexts, while/execute as @e at @ecreates 5*5 = 25 contexts.

** /execute **
- Re-added(if|unless) functionsubcommand.
	- A new execute sub-command that runs a function or function tag and matches the return value(s). If a tag is given, all functions run regardless of the results of prior functions.
	- Syntax:/execute (if|unless) function <function> -> [execute]
	- Arguments:
		- function: The function or tag to run.
	- The matching of the result value of the function(s) that run:
		- At least one of the functions must succeed for the match to succeed.
		- A successful call is defined as a function that:
			- Uses the/returncommand to return a value.
			- The return value is not 0.
		- If no functions exited with/return, neitherifnorunlesswill run.
	- It will not always fail if all functions had no return.
		- If there were no/returns in called functions,ifwill fail andunlesswill pass.
		- First/returnin any of called functions will return (for a single context).

** /function **
- If/function <function tag>runs multiple functions in combination with/return run, execution will stop after first/returnin any of the functions.
- A single call to the/functioncommand will always have return when run with/return run.
	- For example,/return run execute [split context] run function <some function with conditional return>will always return after processing the first context.

** /return **
- Re-addedrunsubcommand:/return run <command>.
	- This takes the result value from running the specifiedcommandand returns that as the return value of the function.
		- If command did not return any value (like, for example, call to a function without/return),/returnwill not execute and function will continue execution.
		- If the given command fails, the return value is0.
		- In all other aspects, it works like/returnwith a specifiedreturnvalue.
		- In case of fork (for example/return run execute as @e run some_command), the first execution of the command will return.
			- If there are no executions (for example in/return run execute if @e[something_impossible] run some_command), function will not return and will continue execution.
	- It will always return.
		- If there are no valid results from returned command, function containing/return runwill fail (i.e.success=0andresult=0).
	- It will propagate success value together with results value.
	- It also allows storing values, which means/execute store ... run return run some_commandwill both store value and return it outside function.
- Added new subcommand/return fail, to make whole function fail (i.e. returnsuccess=0andresult=0).

** /scoreboard **
- New subcommands for changing the display of specific scoreboard entries in the sidebar:
	- /scoreboard objectives modify <objective> displayautoupdate (true|false)
		- Determines whether the objective should automatically update on every score update (disabled by default)
	- /scoreboard players display name <targets> <objective> <text component>
		- Changes the display name of the given scoreboard entries.
	- /scoreboard players display name <targets> <objective>
		- Resets the display name of the given scoreboard entries to their default.
	- /scoreboard players display numberformat <targets> <objective> <format>
		- Changes the number format of the given scoreboard entries (see below for more information).
	- /scoreboard players display numberformat <targets> <objective>
		- Resets the number format of the given scoreboard entries.
	- /scoreboard objectives modify <objective> numberformat <format>
		- Changes the default number format of the given objective (see below for more information).
	- /scoreboard objectives modify <objective> numberformat
		- Resets the default number format of the given objective.
- Number formats:
	- styled <style>
		- The score will be displayed with the selected style (e.g.{"bold":true}.
	- fixed <text component>
		- The score is replaced by the given text component.
	- blank
		- The score is not shown.

