# Minecart with Command Block
A minecart with command block is an impulse‌[JE  only] or repeating‌[BE & edu  only] command block inside a minecart.

## Contents
- 1 Obtaining
- 2 Usage
- 3 Sounds
- 4 Data values
	- 4.1 ID
	- 4.2 Entity data
- 5 History
- 6 Issues
- 7 Gallery
	- 7.1 Screenshots
- 8 References

## Obtaining
The minecart with command block is obtainable only using the command /give @s command_block_minecart, as it does not appear in the creative inventory‌[Bedrock Edition  only] and has no crafting recipe. It can also be summoned using the command /summon command_block_minecart. It can be broken like any other minecart, but only the minecart is retained, while the command block is lost.

## Usage
Main article: Command Block
The minecart with command block combines the functionalities of both minecarts and command blocks. Although the minecart visually contains an impulse command block, it functions more similarly to a repeating command block,  executing the command once every four game ticks (unlike a repeating command block that repeats every 1 game tick) when on an active activator rail. When it passes over a detector rail with a comparator connected next to it, it outputs the command block's success count value.

The command is executed at the coordinates of the minecart, which can of course move, allowing for command execution relative to an entity without the /execute command.

## Data values
### ID
Java Edition:

| Item                        | Identifier               | Form | Translation key                         |
|-----------------------------|--------------------------|------|-----------------------------------------|
| Minecart with Command Block | `command_block_minecart` | Item | `item.minecraft.command_block_minecart` |

| Entity                      | Identifier               | Translation key                           |
|-----------------------------|--------------------------|-------------------------------------------|
| Minecart with Command Block | `command_block_minecart` | `entity.minecraft.command_block_minecart` |

Bedrock Edition:

| Item                        | Identifier               | Numeric ID | Form | Translation key                    |
|-----------------------------|--------------------------|------------|------|------------------------------------|
| Minecart with Command Block | `command_block_minecart` | `563`      | Item | `item.command_block_minecart.name` |

| Entity                      | Identifier               | Numeric ID | Translation key                      |
|-----------------------------|--------------------------|------------|--------------------------------------|
| Minecart with Command Block | `command_block_minecart` | `100`      | `entity.command_block_minecart.name` |

### Entity data
Minecarts with command blocks have entity data associated with them that contain various properties of the entity. 

Java Edition:

Main article: Entity format
- Entity data
	- 
	- Tags common to all entities
	- 
	- Tags common to all minecarts
	- Command: The command entered into the minecart.
	- LastOutput: The last line of output generated by the minecart. Still stored even if thegamerulecommandBlockOutput is false. Appears in the GUI of the minecart when right-clicked, and includes a timestamp of when the output was produced.
	- SuccessCount: Represents the strength of the analog signal output by redstone comparators attached to this minecart. Only updated when the minecart is activated with an activator rail.
	- TrackOutput: 1 or 0 (true/false) - Determines whether the LastOutput is stored. Can be toggled in the GUI by clicking a button near the "Previous Output" textbox. Caption on the button indicates current state: "O" if true,"X" if false.

Bedrock Edition:

SeeBedrock Edition level format/Entity format.

