# Java Edition 1.19.4
1.19.4 is a minor update to Java Edition released on March 14, 2023,[1] which adds the /ride and /damage commands, makes technical changes, and fixes bugs.[2]
Aside from the aforementioned changes, this version also released more features from 1.20 under an "Experimental" toggle. This is the final major release for The Wild Update.

## Contents
- 1 Additions
	- 1.1 Non-mob entities
	- 1.2 Command format
	- 1.3 General
- 2 Changes
	- 2.1 Blocks
	- 2.2 Items
	- 2.3 Mobs
	- 2.4 Non-mob entities
	- 2.5 Command format
	- 2.6 Gameplay
	- 2.7 General
- 3 Experimental
	- 3.1 Additions
		- 3.1.1 Blocks
		- 3.1.2 Items
		- 3.1.3 Mobs
		- 3.1.4 Non-mob entities
		- 3.1.5 World generation
		- 3.1.6 General
	- 3.2 Changes
		- 3.2.1 Blocks
		- 3.2.2 Items
		- 3.2.3 World generation
		- 3.2.4 Gameplay
		- 3.2.5 General
- 4 Fixes
- 5 Video
- 6 References

## Additions
### Non-mob entities
** Display entities **
- Including Block Display, Item Display, and Text Display (block_display,item_display, andtext_display), for flexible display of blocks, items and text.
	- Likemarker(marker), don't tick and have no collisions or physics.
	- Models render at entity position, with normal rotation around X and Y axis (so it can be controlled by teleport commands), but also with additional arbitrary model transform.
- 2 new data types added, each of them has 2 forms, but only one for saving, as following:
	- rotation
		- Quaternion form (used for saving): array of 4 numbers, describing components (x, y, z, w).
		- Axis-angle form: object with following fields:
			- axis: 3D vector.
			- angle: Angle in radians.
	- transformation: Arbitrary affine transform, composed as following fields and following order:
		- Matrix form: array of 16 numbers, describing row-major matrix.
		- Decomposed form (used for saving): object with following fields:
			- translation: 3D vector.
			- left_rotation:rotationobject.
			- scale: 3D vector.
			- right_rotation:rotationobject.
- Some properties of display entites can be interpolated, to create gradual changes over time for clients, instead of instantenous jumps.
	- Display entities keep track of current and previous values of interpolated values:
		- All properties marked as "interpolated" are part of a single interpolation set.
		- Any update to interpolated property will cause all values of interpolation set to be saved as "current".
			- Data command executions that do not change value of property (even if it's present in NBT) do not count as updates.
			- Updates are synchronized to clients at most once per tick, so multiple updates within command will still count as single update.
		- Previous current values are saved as "previous".
		- If interpolation is enabled, entity will transition between "previous" and "current" values over time.
		- Start of interpolation (entity fully in "previous" state) is defined by fieldinterpolation_start(game time, in ticks).
			- Set to-1to load current game time instead.
	- When a new interpolation is started, it starts from the current state.
	- Interpolation always starts at the beginning on client tick.
	- Fieldinterpolation_startis replaced withstart_interpolation, with a different meaning.
	- start_interpolationdescribes amount of ticks from the start of next client tick after receiving an update to start of interpolation.
		- For example, value 0 means that interpolation will start at the beginning of next client tick after receiving the update.
	- start_interpolationis not stored in entity data.
		- When using/datacommands, if interpolated value is updated, butstart_interpolationis not present in modified tag, interpolation will continue from the time of previous update, but with new values.
	- End of interpolation (entity fully in "current" state) is defined asinterpolation_start+interpolation_duration(in ticks).
- Every entity in family has the following fields:
	- transformation:transformationapplied to model (after normal entity orientation). Defaults to identity. Interpolated.
	- billboard: option to control if entity should pivot to face player when rendered:
		- fixed: No rotation (default).
		- verticalEntity can pivot around vertical axis.
		- horizontalEntity can pivot around horizontal axis.
		- centerEntity can pivot around center point.
	- brightness: If present, overrides light values used for rendering. Omited by default (which means rendering uses values from entity position). Object has two fields:
		- sky: Value of skylight, from 0 to 15.
		- block: Value of block light, from 0 to 15.
	- view_range: Maximum view range of this entity. Actual distance depends on client-side render distance and entity distance scalling. Default value 1.0 (roughly the same as fireball).
	- shadow_radius: Size of shadow. Defaults to 0 (no shadow). Interpolated.
	- shadow_strength: Strength of the shadow. Controls the opacity of the shadow as a function of distance to block below. Defaults to 1. Interpolated.
	- width,height: Describe size of culling bounding box. Bounding box spans verticallyytoy+heightand horizontallywidth/2in all directions from entity position. If either field is set to 0, culling is disabled. Both default to 0.
	- glow_color_override: Override glow border color. Defaults to 0 (use team color).
- Besides common fields, these entitiy types also have some exclusive fields for their different usages:
	- Item Display (item_display): Displays a single item stack (stack can be changed with commands by setting slotinventory.0).
		- item: Item stack to display. Same format as in inventory.
			- Example:{id: "minecraft:dirt", Count: 1}
		- item_display: Describes item model transform applied to item (as defined indisplaysection in model JSON)
			- Values:none(default),thirdperson_lefthand,thirdperson_righthand,firstperson_lefthand,firstperson_righthand,head,gui,ground,fixed.
	- Block Display (block_display): Displays a block state, does not display block entities, even if they would normally be created on block placement (likechest).
		- block_state: Block state to display. Same format as item held byendermen.
			- Example:{Name:"minecraft:dirt"}.
	- Text Display (text_display): Displays a text component (backgrounds uses new shader typesrendertype_text_background, andrendertype_text_background_see_through).
		- text: Text to display. Components are resolved with the context of the display entity.
		- line_width: Line width used to split lines (note: new line can be also addded with\ncharacters). Defaults to 200.
		- text_opacity: Opacity (alpha component) of rendered text. Defaults to 255. Interpolated.
		- background: Color of background. Includes alpha channel. Defaults to 0x40000000. Interpolated.
		- default_background: If true, rendering uses default text background color (same as in chat). Defaults to false.
		- shadow: Should text be displayed with shadow. Defaults to false.
		- see_through: Should text be visible through blocks. Defaults to false.
		- alignment: How text should be aligned.
			- Values:center(default),left,right.

** Interaction **
- A new type of entity that recordsattacks andinteractions. Interactions (interaction) are invisible and of a custom size, with following fields:
	- width: Width of the entity's bounding box (default1).
	- height: Height of the entity's bounding box (default1).
	- attack: An action object, records the last attack action on the entity.
	- interaction:  An action object, records the last interaction action on the entity.
	- response: Boolean specifying if interacting should trigger a response (arm swing, sound effects, etc - defaultfalse).
- Introduced action object accordingly. When an action is stored, it always has two fields:
	- player: The UUID (in standard integer array format) of the player performing the action.
	- timestamp: The timestamp of the game tick when the event happened (stored as a long).
- This made following command usage possible:
	- Execute command as the last player who attacked the entity when using/execute on attacker.
	- Execute command as the last player who interacted with the entity when using/execute on target.
- Advancement triggers also got triggered, when:
	- Interacting with an interaction entity:player_interacted_with_entity.
	- Attacking an interaction entity:player_hurt_entity.

### Command format
** Game rule **
- AddedcommandModificationBlockLimit.
	- Defaults to32768.
	- Controls the maximum number of blocks changed in one execution of/clone,/fill, and/fillbiomecommands.
- AddeddoVinesSpread.
	- Defaults totrue.
	- Determines ifvineswill spread to nearby blocks.
	- Does not affectcave vines,twisting vinesandweeping vines.

** /damage **
- A new command to apply damage to entities, with following syntaxes:
	- /damage <target> <amount> [<damageType>] [at <location>]
	- /damage <target> <amount> [<damageType>] [by <entity>] [from <cause>]
- Parameters:
	- target: The entity to damage.
	- amount: Amount of damage to inflict.
	- damageType: The type of damage to inflict.
		- This determines how the damage affects the entity as well as whichdeath messageis displayed.
	- location: The location the damage originated at (when no entity caused the damage).
		- For instance,locationmight represent the location of abedexploding inthe Nether.
	- entity: The entity inflicting the damage.
	- cause: The cause of the damage, in the case of indirect damage.
		- Example: When shot by an arrow, theentityis thearrowprojectile whilecausemight be askeleton.

** /ride **
- A new command to allow entities to start or stop riding other entities, syntaxes:
	- /ride <target> mount <vehicle>: makes a single target mount a single vehicle, will fail if:
		- vehicleis a player;
		- targetis already riding a vehicle;
		- targetandvehicleare the same entity;
		- vehicleis already a passenger (direct or indirect) oftarget.
	- /ride <target> dismount: dismountstargetfrom any vehicle it is riding, will fail iftargetis not riding anything.

### General
** Data pack **
- Addeddamage types, which are a new registry.
	- Determines how damage is handled by the game.
	- Includes which attributes the damage has as well as which death message is used when an entity dies due to that type of damage, example:{
	"exhaustion": 0.1,
 	"message_id": "arrow",
	"scaling": "when_caused_by_living_non_player"
}
	- Fields:
		- message_id: The message id used for deaths caused by this damage type.
			- Will be combined with other string fragments to form a translation key.
		- exhaustion: The amount of hungerexhaustioncaused by this damage type.
		- scaling: Whether this damage type scales with difficulty levels. Possible values:
			- never: Damage is always the same.
			- always: Damage always scales with difficulty.
			- when_caused_by_living_non_player: Damage scales with difficulty if it was caused by a living entity who is not a player.
		- effects: Optional field controlling how damage manifests when inflicted on players. Possible values:
			- hurt(default): The default hurt sound.
			- thorns: Thorns hurt sound.
			- drowning: Drowning sound.
			- burning: A single tick of burning sound.
			- poking: Berry bush poke sound.
			- freezing: Freeze tick sound.
		- death_message_type: Optional field that controls if special death message variants are used. Possible values:
			- default(default): No special death message logic is applied.
			- fall_variants: Show a variant of fall damage death instead of a regular death message, e.g.death.fell.assist.item.
			- intentional_game_design: Show the intentional game design message instead of a regular death message.
	- Damage typetagscontrol many aspects of how damage from different sources are interpreted.

** Menu screen **
- Added an accessibility onboarding screen for players launching the game for the first time, which allows players to turn on the narrator and change accessibility settings if needed.
- Added arrow key navigation.
	- Menu screens can now be navigated by using the arrow keys.
	- When navigating with arrow keys, sliders need to be activated by pressingEnterorSpaceto start changing their value.

** Options **
- Added a new "Notification Time" accessibility option, to change how long the notifications such as unlocked recipes, advancements, subtitles and selected item names are visible.
- Added "Glint Speed" and "Glint Strength" accessibility/video options for adjusting the speed and transparency of enchantment glints.
- Added "Damage Tilt" accessibility option, for controlling the amount of camera shake when being hurt.
- Addedtooltipsin the Key Binds options screen that specifies which key binds are conflicting.
- Added "High Contrast" accessibility option, which enhances the contrast of UI elements.
- Added "Credits & Attribution" button in the Options menu.
	- Minecraft'sCredits,Attribution, andLicensescan be accessed.

** Protocol **
- Added a network protocol feature for forcing bundle of packets to be processed within same client tick.
	- Added new delimiter packet to clientbound game protocol.
	- All packets between two delimiters are guaranteed to be processed within same tick.
	- For security reasons this feature is not supported in serverbound direction.

** Realms **
- Added a notification system for Realms to notify the player about important information about their Realm.

** Recipes **
- Added a new recipe serializercrafting_decorated_potfor the newdecorated potrecipe.
- Addedshow_notificationfield to recipes.
	- Accepts a boolean which determines if a notification is shown when unlocking this recipe.
	- Defaults totrueif isn't specified.

"High Contrast" resource pack.
** Resource packs **
- Added a built-in "High Contrast" resource pack that enhances the contrast of UI elements.
	- The resource pack can be enabled in the accessibility options screen or manually in the resource pack screen.
	- Only available in the menus for now.

** Tags **
- Added following biome tags:
	- #increased_fire_burnout: containsbamboo_jungle,mushroom_fields,mangrove_swamp,snowy_slopes,frozen_peaks,jagged_peaks,swamp, andjungle.
		- Fire will burn out faster in these defined biomes.
	- #snow_golem_melts: containsbadlands,basalt_deltas,crimson_forest,desert,eroded_badlands,nether_wastes,savanna,savanna_plateau,soul_sand_valley,warped_forest,windswept_savanna, andwooded_badlands.
		- Snow golems will melt in these defined biomes.
	- #spawns_snow_foxes: containssnowy_plains,ice_spikes,frozen_ocean,snowy_taiga,frozen_river,snowy_beach,frozen_peaks,jagged_peaks,snowy_slopes, andgrove.
		- Snow foxes will spawn in these defined biomes.
	- #spawns_white_rabbits: containssnowy_plains,ice_spikes,frozen_ocean,snowy_taiga,frozen_river,snowy_beach,frozen_peaks,jagged_peaks,snowy_slopes, andgrove.
		- White rabbits will spawn in these defined biomes.
- Added following block tag:
	- #smelts_to_glass: containssand, andred_sand.
- Added following damage type tags:
	- #always_hurts_ender_dragons: contains#is_explosion.
	- #always_most_significant_fall: containsout_of_world.
	- #always_triggers_silverfish: containsmagic.
	- #avoids_guardian_thorns: containsmagic,thorns, and#is_explosion.
	- #burns_armor_stands: containson_fire.
	- #bypasses_armor: containson_fire,in_wall,cramming,drown,fly_into_wall,generic,wither,dragon_breath,freeze,starve,fall,freeze,stalagmite,magic,indirect_magic,out_of_world, andsonic_boom.
	- #bypasses_cooldown: empty in vanilla.
	- #bypasses_effects: containsstarve.
	- #bypasses_enchantments: containssonic_boom.
	- #bypasses_invulnerability: containsout_of_world.
	- #bypasses_resistance: containsout_of_world.
	- #bypasses_shield: contains#bypasses_armor,falling_anvil, andfalling_stalactite.
	- #damages_helmet: containsfalling_anvil,falling_block, andfalling_stalactite.
	- #ignites_armor_stands: containsin_fire.
	- #is_drowning: containsdrown.
	- #is_explosion: containsfireworks,explosion,player_explosion, andbad_respawn_point.
	- #is_fall: containsfall, andstalagmite.
	- #is_fire: containsin_fire,on_fire,lava,hot_floor,unattributed_fireball, andfireball.
	- #is_freezing: containsfreeze.
	- #is_lightning: containslightning_bolt.
	- #is_projectile: containsarrow,trident,mob_projectile,unattributed_fireball,fireball,wither_skull, andthrown.
	- #no_anger: containsmob_attack_no_aggro.
	- #no_impact: containsdrown.
	- #witch_resistant_to: containsmagic,indirect_magic,sonic_boom, andthorns.
	- #wither_immune_to: containsdrown.
- Added following entity tags:
	- #dismounts_underwater: containscamel,chicken,donkey,horse,llama,mule,pig,ravager,spider,strider,trader_llama, andzombie_horse.
		- Only mobs in this tag will now force the rider to dismount when underwater.
	- #fall_damage_immune: containsiron_golem,snow_golem,shulker,allay,bat,bee,blaze,cat,chicken,ghast,phantom,magma_cube,ocelot,parrot, andwither.
		- Entity types with this tag do not take fall damage.
- Added following item tags:
	- #axes: containsdiamond_axe,stone_axe,golden_axe,netherite_axe,wooden_axe, andiron_axe.
	- #hoes: containsdiamond_hoe,stone_hoe,golden_hoe,netherite_hoe,wooden_hoe, andiron_hoe.
	- #pickaxes: containsdiamond_pickaxe,stone_pickaxe,golden_pickaxe,netherite_pickaxe,wooden_pickaxe, andiron_pickaxe.
	- #shovels: containsdiamond_shovel,stone_shovel,golden_shovel,netherite_shovel,wooden_shovel, andiron_shovel.
	- #smelts_to_glass: containssand, andred_sand.
	- #swords: containsdiamond_sword,stone_sword,golden_sword,netherite_sword,wooden_sword, andiron_sword.
	- #tools: contains#axes,#hoes,#pickaxes,#shovels,#swords, andtrident.

** General **
- Added--pidFileargument to dedicated server command line for printingProcess ID (PID)to file.

## Changes
### Blocks
** Froglight **
- Sounds when placing or breaking the block are now less loud.

** Jukebox **
- Now emits a note particle above them while playing amusic disc, to matchBedrock Edition.
- Now emits a redstone signal of 15 while playing amusic disc.
- Droppersandhopperscan now interact with it.

** Sculk Sensor **
- Theitem_interact_finishevent now has a vibration frequency of 2 instead of 14.
- Are now able to detect more actions included in several existing and new game events, such as the following:
	- block_change:
		- Using shears oncave vines,kelp,twisting vinesandweeping vines.
		- Picking an item from acave vineor alectern.
		- Interacting with items placed on both types ofitem frames.
		- Tramplingfarmlandinto regulardirt.
		- Charging up arespawn anchor.
		- Interacting with acomposter.
	- block_place:
		- Turtleandfrogslaying eggs.
	- container_close:
		- Closing aminecart with chestor aboat with chest.
	- entity_damage:
		- Breakingshulkerbullets.
	- entity_dismount(new game event, with signal 6):
		- Dismount any passenger from any vehicle.
	- entity_interact:
		- Dyeing asheep.
		- Attaching or removing aleadfrom an entity.
	- entity_mount(new game event, with signal 7):
		- Mount any passenger to any vehicle.

### Items
** Chestplate and Elytra **
- Now can swap the equipped gear byusingthem.

** Potions and Tipped Arrows **
- Changed colors of following potions (all forms) and tipped arrows:
	- Fire Resistance
	- Harming
	- Invisibility
	- Leaping
	- Luck
	- Night Vision
	- Poison
	- Slowness
	- Strength
	- Swiftness
	- Turtle Master
	- Water Breathing
- Potions no longer have an enchantment glint due to it obscuring the color of the potion contents.

** Shield **
- A sound is now played when a shield is placed into the offhand slot.

### Mobs
** Donkey, Mule, Skeleton Horse, and Zombie Horse **
- Changed their textures.

** Vex **
- Now use a separate charging animation when empty-handed.

### Non-mob entities
** Armor Stand **
- Now preserve custom names when placed and broken.

** Minecart with Hopper **
- No longer aggravatespiglinswhen opened.

### Command format
** Chat component **
- Added an optionalfallbackfield totranslatetext components.
	- The new field is a string that will be used in place of translation if it is missing.
	- Iffallbackis missing, the old behavior (i.e. using the key itself as the translation) is preserved.
- Out-of-bound arguments intranslateformats are no longer silently ignored.

** /clone **
- Now supports specifying the source and target dimensions, new syntax:
	- /clone [from <sourceDimension>] <begin> <end> [to <targetDimension>] <destination> ...
		- sourceDimension: ID of dimension to clone from.
		- targetDimension: ID of dimension to clone to.

** /data **
- New sourcestringavailable, to read a value as text and resulting in a string value, syntax:
	- ... (insert <index>|prepend|append|set|merge) string (block <sourcePos>|entity <source>|storage <source>) [<sourcePath>] [<start>] [<end>]
		- start: index of first character to include at the start of the string.
		- end: index of the first character to exclude at the end of the string.

** /effect **
- infiniteis now a valid option for effect durations.
	- Infinite effect durations show up as "∞" in the player inventory view.

** /execute **
- On(if|unless), new conditions available:
	- ... loaded <pos>: checks if the position given is fully loaded (in regard to both blocks and entities).
		- pos: block position to check.
	- ... dimension <dimension>: checks if the execution is in a matching dimension.
		- dimension: a dimension ID.
- New sub-command:on, for selecting entities based on relation to the current executing entity, syntax:
	- ... on (attacker|controller|leasher|owner|passengers|target|vehicle) -> execute
		- attacker: last entity that damaged the executing entity in the previous 5 seconds.
		- controller: entity that is controlling the executing entity (for example: first passenger in a boat).
		- leasher: entity leading the executing entity with a leash (might be a leash knot in case of being attached to a fence).
		- owner: owner of the executing entity, if it is a tameable animal (like cats, wolves or parrots).
		- passengers: all entities directly riding the executing entity (no sub-passengers).
		- target: attack target for the executing entity.
		- vehicle: entity that the executing entity is riding.
	- If the relation is not applicable to the executing entity or there are no entities matching it, selector returns zero elements.
- New sub-command:summon, with the following syntax:
	- ... summon <entity> -> execute
	- This sub-command is for summoning new entity and binding context (@s) to it. Meant to simplify entity setup and reduce need for raw NBT editing.
- New sub-command:positioned over, for finding positions on top of a heightmap. Changes the height of the execution position to be on top of the given heightmap. Syntax:
	- ... positioned over <heightmap> -> execute
		- <heightmap>: A heightmap records the highest position in a column of blocks according to some criteria. Available options:
			- world_surface: Any non-air block.
			- motion_blocking: Any motion blocking material (e.g. ignores flowers and grass).
			- motion_blocking_no_leaves: Any non-leaf motion blocking material.
			- ocean_floor: Any non-fluid motion blocking material.
- Added a new relationoriginfor/execute on, which can select:
	- Shooter, if the executing entity is aprojectile(likearrow,fireball,trident,firework, thrownpotion, etc.)
	- Thrower, if the executing entity is anitem.
	- Source of effects, if the executing entity is anarea effect cloud.
	- Igniter, if the executing entity is aprimed TNT.
	- Summoner, if the executing entity isevoker fangsor avex.

** /title **
- All time arguments to/title timesare now time durations and work witht,s, anddsuffixes.

** /weather **
- The duration of the weather change now matches the game's regular weather cycle if not specified.
- Thedurationparameter is now a time duration in ticks and works witht,s, anddsuffixes.
	- To retain existing functionality, the player needs to add anssuffix to pre-existing commands.

### Gameplay
** Horse, donkey, and llama breeding **
- When breeding horses and the like, the babies' speed, jump height and health are no longer biased toward the average, and are instead a variation of the average of the parents' statistics.
	- This change is intended to make horse breeding a viable way of getting great horses, if a player starts with good parents and puts in enough time andgolden carrots.

### General
** Create New World **
- The screen is now organized into three tabs:
	- The "Game" tab allows to set the world name,gamemode,difficultyand whether to allowcheats.
	- The "World" tab allows to set theworld typeandworld seed, and to toggle the generation ofstructuresand thebonus chest.
	- The "More" tab provides access to thegame rulesanddata packselection screen.
- Tabs can be switched with the keyboard by pressingCtrl+TabandCtrl+Shift+Tab.
- Specific tabs can also be navigated to by pressingCtrl+Tab Number.
- Tabs have unique visuals instead of being traditional buttons.
- The tabs align to the center of the screen, and the content aligns to the top of the screen.
- The save location for the new world shows up in a tooltip when placing the cursor over the world name.
- Added a screen to easily enable/disable experimental features.
	- Can always be found under the "More" tab.
	- In snapshots, a shortcut button can be found under the "Game" tab.
- Removed the "Import Settings" button and the corresponding "Export Settings" button in the "Edit World” screen.

** Creative Inventory **
- Addedpaintingvariants to "Functional Blocks" tab.
	- Paintings with pre-defined variant will now display author, title and size in description when hovered over.
	- The "Operator Utilities" tab contains the four paintings that are not available in Survival mode.
- Addedfire chargeto the "Ingredients" tab.

** Data pack **
- The version is now12.

** Debug screen **
- PressingF3+Swill now dump contents of dynamic textures (like atlases, maps, etc.) toscreenshots/debug/.

** Menu screen **
- The resource pack screen is now keyboard-navigatable.
- Changed howtooltipsin the menu UI are positioned.

** Options **
- Auto-Jump is now off by default.
- Texts in options buttons now have a scrolling animation whenever they are too large to fit.

** options.txt **
- RemovedheldItemTooltips.

** Predicate **
- Removedis_projectile,is_explosion,bypasses_armor,bypasses_invulnerability,bypasses_magic,is_fire,is_magic, andis_lightningfields from damage type predicates.
- A newtagsarray has been added. Each entry has two fields:
	- id: The ID of a damage type tag.
	- expected: Whether the damage is expected to have or not have the tag for the predicate to match.

** Protocol **
- Clients now reset their secure chat session state when receiving the login packet.

** Realms **
- Updated the Realms screen to be more in line with the Singleplayer and Multiplayer screens.

** Recipes **
- Thecrafting tablerecipe is unlocked immediately on creating a new world.
- Thecrossbowandsoul campfirerecipes are no longer unlocked bysticks.

** Resource pack **
- The resource pack version is now 13.
- The vanilla resource packen_uslanguage file is now sorted alphanumerically by key.
- The enchantment glint now has two separate texture files:enchanted_glint_entity.pngandenchanted_glint_item.png.

** Tags **
- Added#animals_spawnable_onto the#goats_spawnable_onblock tag.
- Renamed#only_allows_snow_and_gold_rabbitsbiome tag to the#spawns_gold_rabbits.

** UI **
- Slightly moved the search icon on the recipe book UI.

** User interface **
- Placeholder icons for empty slots such asarmoror in abrewing standhave been lightened.
	- Change has not been applied to theloommenu.
	- Setting the resource pack toprogrammer artdoes not revert this change (despite the change being made to the textures themselves).

## Experimental
These additions and changes only take effect when the 1.20 experimental data pack is enabled.

### Additions
#### Blocks
** Cherry Leaves **
- A new type of leaves.
- Have pink particles falling underneath.

** Cherry Log **
- A new type of log, as well as a stripped variant.
- Can be used to craft cherry woods and planks.
- The stripped variant can be used to craftcherry hanging sign.

** Cherry Planks **
- A new type of plank.
- Can be used to craft cherrybuttons,doors,fences,fence gates,pressure plates,signs,slabs,stairs, andtrapdoors.

** Cherry Sapling **
- A new type of sapling.
- Can be placed inflower pots.

** Cherry Wood **
- A new type of wood, as well as a stripped variant.
- Can be used to craft cherry planks.

** Decorated Pot **
- Can be crafted with any 4 pottery shards orbrickitems, in a rhombic crafting configuration.
	- The type of crafting material decides which picture will display on its respective side of the decorated pot (e.g. an "arms up" pottery shard in the top slot will display on the back).
		- Thebrick itemwill not have a picture, and will instead be blank.
- Very fragile and easy to break.
	- Will break apart into its crafting materials when broken using any block-breaking tool.
	- Will drop itself when broken using an empty hand or a block-breaking tool withSilk Touch, or when moved bypistons.

** Pink Petals **
- A new type of surface block, which generates naturally in cherry groves.
- Renewable when applying abone mealto an existing set of pink petals or to the ground of cherry groves.
- Similar tosea pickles, pink petals can be placed up to 4 in one dirt-related block.
- Can be placed directionally.
- Can be crafted intopink dye.

** Suspicious Sand **
- Looks similar tosand, with a rougher texture.
- Affected by gravity, although it vanishes when landing.
- Drops nothing when mined or moved, even if mining withSilk Touch.
- Generates naturally indesert templesanddesert wells, with different archaeological loot tables.
- Brushing the suspicious sand with abrushwill extract objects.
	- Has 4 stages of extraction (displayed through the texture), and will "recover" gradually when brushing is stopped.
	- Turns to regularsandonce extraction is done.
	- Only suspicious sand with a valid archaeological loot table (the ones naturally generated) can extract an item.

** Torchflower **
- A new type of flower, which grows from torchflower seeds after 2 stages (3 stages in total).
- Doesn't emit light, despite the name.
- If it's in its third growth stage, it will only drop itself when broken, otherwise it will drop its seed.
- Can be crafted into anorange dye.
- Can be planted in aflower pot.
- Can be used to craft asuspicious stew, giving the playerNight Vision.
- Can be used to tempt and breedbees.

#### Items
** Brush **
- An item which can be used in the new archaeology system.
- Can be crafted with afeather,copper ingotandstickin a vertical line.
- Consumes 1 durability point when extracting an item from a suspicious sand successfully.
- Has no effect when brushing anything other than suspicious sand.

** Pottery Shard **
- They have pictures on them.
- They cannot be crafted and are only found by brushing suspicious sand.

** Smithing Templates **
- New item series for trimming armor and upgrading diamond armor tonetherite, with twelve varieties of armor trims.
	- Netherite Upgrade
	- Armor trims:
		- Coast Armor Trim
		- Dune Armor Trim
		- Eye Armor Trim
		- Rib Armor Trim
		- Sentry Armor Trim
		- Snout Armor Trim
		- Spire Armor Trim
		- Tide Armor Trim
		- Vex Armor Trim
		- Ward Armor Trim
		- Wild Armor Trim
- They can be obtained randomly from chests generated in their respective structures.
	- Exceptions:
		- While randomly generated in other rooms, a netherite upgrade smithing template is also guaranteed in every treasure room in abastion remnant.
		- 1 eye armor trim is guaranteed in everystrongholdlibrary chest.
		- A single tide armor trim is sometimes dropped byelder guardiansupon death.
	- Some armor trims are rarer than others, with a higher or lower chance of generating depending on the set rarity.
	- The following common armor trims always generate 2 templates in a chest when found:
		- Dune
		- Coast
		- Wild
		- Sentry
- Consumed when used to upgrade an item in thesmithing table.
- Cannot be crafted directly, but a copy can be made by crafting in the following pattern:
	- 7diamonds, in a U shape.
	- 1 block of material that the template is made out of, placed in the center slot of thecraftinggrid.
	- 1 smithing template, placed in the remaining top middle slot.

** Spawn Egg **
- Added sniffer spawn egg.

** Torchflower Seeds **
- A new type of seed, which can be planted onfarmlandand grows into a torchflower.
- Can only be obtained if a sniffer digs up a torchflower seed.
- Can be used to tempt and breedchickensandparrots.

#### Mobs
** Sniffer **
- A new passive mob, which is also the mob vote winner ofMinecraft Live 2022.
- Considered to be the first "ancient" mob.
- Very large (2×2 full blocks).
- Has 14× 7points of health.
- Cannot spawn naturally.
- Cannot be tempted or tamed.
- Often sniffs in the air and occasionally digs for torchflower seeds.
	- The digging has a cooldown of 8 minutes.
	- The last 20 dug blocks are remembered with asniffer_explored_positionsmemory, and are not eligible for digging again.
- Can be bred with torchflower seeds.
- Dropsmoss blockwhen killed.

#### Non-mob entities
** Cherry Boat **
- A new type of boat, crafted with cherry planks.

** Cherry Boat with Chest **
- A new type of boat with chest, crafted with a cherry boat and a chest.

#### World generation
** Cherry **
- A new type of tree which can be grown from cherry saplings.
- Occasionally generate with abee nest.
- Tree trunks fork or bend high up, and are then covered up in large, round canopies of cherry leaves.

** Cherry Grove **
- A newbiomewhich contains cherry trees.
- Located in themountains, likemeadows.
- Pigs,sheep, andbeescan spawn here.

#### General
** Data pack **
- Added registrytrim_patternandtrim_material, which defines trim patterns and materials respectively, to allow add them via data packs.
	- These are synchronized to clients when they join the server, but the accompanying resource pack is required on client to make them visible.
	- The paths to these textures are inferred based on the filename of the pattern json, and will try to find the textures within the same namespace as the trim pattern'snamefield.
- trim_patterndefines following data:
	- asset_id: a namespaced ID used to infer texture locations and localization.
	- template_item: the ID of the smithing template item used to apply the trim pattern.
	- description: a text component used for displaying the pattern name of an armor trim when hovering an armor item stack.
- trim_materialdefines following data:
	- asset_name: a string used as a suffix for armor trim texture locations.
	- ingredient: the ID of the ingredient item used to apply the trim material.
	- item_model_index: a float number which defines the item model override each armor item model should target to change their visuals for this material.
	- description: a text component used for displaying the material name of an armor trim when hovering an armor itemstack.
		- The style defined in this description is applied to the armor trim patterndescriptionas well.
	- override_armor_materials: an optional map of armor material to overriden color palette.
		- Map key is the armor material that this trim material wants to override with a different color palette.
		- Map value is the name of the color palette that will be used when this trim material is applied to an armor piece with the corresponding armor material.

** Particles **
- Addeddripping_cherry_leaves,falling_cherry_leaves, andlanding_cherry_leaves, which will appear underneath the cherry leaves.

** player.dat format **
- Added new flag (value 128) to HideFlags NBT field for hiding armor trim item tooltips.

** Recipe **
- Addedsmithing_transform, andsmithing_trimrecipe serializers for the updated netherite upgrade and the new armor trim recipe respectively.

** Resource pack **
- Addedpaletted_permutations, which is a new type of atlas configuration source used to dynamically generate new textures in memory based on a set of color palettes.
	- Color palettes allows to swap out the colors of a texture without having to supply all files for the variants of a texture in a resource pack.
	- This is useful for things like armor trims. It can change the their color directly without create a new texture for each color.
	- Thepaletted_permutationssource has a set of required parameters:
		- textures: a list of namespaced locations of base textures.
			- These textures will be used to generate variants of them that have been modified by color palettes.
		- palette_key: a namespaced location of a color palette key file.
			- A color palette key is used to define the set of key pixel colors we want to swap out with the color palettes defined below.
		- permutations: a map of permutations from suffix to a namespaced location of a color palette file.
			- The suffix is appended at the beginning to the resource location of the output variant textures, with a_character separating the suffix and the base texture name.
			- The color palette is a texture file with a set of pixels that are used for replacing pixels that match the color palette key in each base texture.
			- The number of pixels in each color palette must be the same as that of thepalette_keydefined for this source.
			- Key matching is done by comparing the RGB values of each pixel in thepalette_keyto the RGB values of each pixel in the color palette.
			- Alpha channel is ignored for key matching, but in the resulting texture the alpha channel is multiplied with the color palette's alpha channel.
			- Pixels that do not match thepalette_keyare copied over to the resulting texture as-is.
	- After defining apaletted_permutationssource, those namespaced output textures can be referenced in other resources in resource pack.
		- For example, if the followingpaletted_permutationssource exists:
			- {
    "type": "paletted_permutations",
    "textures": [
        "minecraft:item/leather_helmet",
        "minecraft:item/leather_chestplate",
        "minecraft:item/leather_leggings",
        "minecraft:item/leather_boots"
    ],
    "palette_key": "minecraft:colormap/color_palettes/leather_armor_color_key",
    "permutations": {
        "red": "minecraft:colormap/color_palettes/red",
        "green": "minecraft:colormap/color_palettes/green",
        "blue": "minecraft:colormap/color_palettes/blue"
    }
}
		- The resulting textures can be referenced in other resources like this:
			- {
    "textures": {
        "layer0": "minecraft:item/leather_helmet_red",
        "layer1": "minecraft:item/leather_chestplate_green",
        "layer2": "minecraft:item/leather_boots_blue"
    }
}

** Tags **
- Added following block tags:
	- #cherry_logs: containscherry_log,cherry_wood,stripped_cherry_log, andstripped_cherry_wood.
	- #sniffer_diggable_block: containsdirt,grass_block,podzol,coarse_dirt,rooted_dirt,moss_block,mud, andmuddy_mangrove_roots.
- Added following item tags:
	- #breaks_decorated_pots: contains#tools.
	- #cherry_logs: containscherry_log,cherry_wood,stripped_cherry_log, andstripped_cherry_wood.
	- #decorated_pot_shards: containsbrick,pottery_shard_archer,pottery_shard_prize,pottery_shard_arms_up, andpottery_shard_skull.
	- #noteblock_top_instruments: containszombie_head,skeleton_skull,creeper_head,dragon_head,wither_skeleton_skull,piglin_head, andplayer_head.
	- #sniffer_food: containstorchflower_seeds.
	- #trim_materials: containsamethyst_shard,copper_ingot,diamond,emerald,gold_ingot,iron_ingot,lapis_lazuli,netherite_ingot,quartz, andredstone.
	- #trim_templates: containscoast_armor_trim_smithing_template,dune_armor_trim_smithing_template,eye_armor_trim_smithing_template,rib_armor_trim_smithing_template,sentry_armor_trim_smithing_template,snout_armor_trim_smithing_template,spire_armor_trim_smithing_template,tide_armor_trim_smithing_template,vex_armor_trim_smithing_template,ward_armor_trim_smithing_template, andwild_armor_trim_smithing_template.
	- #trimmable_armor: containschainmail_boots,chainmail_chestplate,chainmail_helmet,chainmail_leggings,diamond_boots,diamond_chestplate,diamond_helmet,diamond_leggings,golden_boots,golden_chestplate,golden_helmet,golden_leggings,iron_boots,iron_chestplate,iron_helmet,iron_leggings,leather_helmet,leather_chestplate,leather_leggings,leather_boots,netherite_boots,netherite_chestplate,netherite_helmet,netherite_leggings, andturtle_helmet.

### Changes
#### Blocks
** Head **
- Now can be placed on top of note blocks without sneaking.

#### Items
** Armor **
- Now can be visually customized with a variety of unique trims at thesmithing table.
- Purely visual with no gameplay benefits, and can only be applied tohelmets,chestplates,leggingsandboots.
	- All trim patterns are visually the same on an armor's item icon, but the color will still change based on the trim material.
	- The name of the trim pattern will be displayed on the item's tooltip.
- Armor trim has 2 properties: pattern and material.
	- Pattern: Defined by the smithing template used to apply the trim, and represents the visual pattern of the trim.
	- Material: Defined by what ingredient is used to apply the trim, and represents the color of the trim.
		- Available ingredients:
			- Amethyst Shard
			- Copper Ingot
			- Diamond
			- Emerald
			- Gold Ingot
			- Iron Ingot
			- Lapis Lazuli
			- Nether Quartz
			- Netherite Ingot
			- Redstone Dust

#### World generation
** Desert Pyramid **
- Now includes a new room filled withsandandsuspicious sand.
	- Some sand will appear exposed, and can be found at the same height asblue terracotta.

** Desert Well **
- Now includes suspicious sand underwater.

#### Gameplay
** Advancements **
- The cherry grove is now required to be visited for the "Adventuring Time" advancement.
- The "A Seedy Place" advancement can be granted by plantingtorchflower seedsnow.
- The "The Parrots and the Bats" advancement can be granted by breeding sniffers now.
- The "Two by Two" advancement now requires breeding a sniffer.

** Smithing Table functionality **
- Redesigned: it is now a workstation for physical equipment upgrades and modifications.
- Added a slot used by smithing templates to the left of the old 2 slots.
- Smithing templates define what type of upgrade that will be making to equipment.
	- It specifies both what type of items that can upgrade, and which ingredients are valid to customize the upgrade.
- Netherite equipment crafting now also requires a netherite upgrade smithing template.
- Two menu types:
	- Old menu without the smithing template slot has been renamed tolegacy_smithing, and will be removed when armor trims are no longer an experimental feature.
	- New menu with smithing template slot was added, calledsmithing.

#### General
** Tags **
- Addedcherry_boatinto the#boatsitem tag.
- Addedcherry_buttoninto the#wooden_buttonsblock and item tags.
- Addedcherry_chest_boatinto the#chest_boatsitem tag.
- Addedcherry_doorinto the#wooden_doorsblock and item tags.
- Addedcherry_fence_gateinto the#fence_gatesblock and item tags.
- Addedcherry_fenceinto the#wooden_fencesblock and item tags.
- Addedcherry_groveinto the#is_mountainbiome tag.
- Addedcherry_hanging_signinto the#ceiling_hanging_signsblock tag and#hanging_signsitem tag.
- Addedcherry_leavesinto the#leavesblock and item tag.
- Addedcherry_leaves, andpink_petalsinto the#flowersblock and item tag.
- Addedcherry_leaves, andpink_petalsinto the#mineable/hoeblock tag.
- Addedcherry_loginto the#overworld_natural_logsblock tag.
- Added#cherry_logsinto the#logs_that_burnblock and item tag.
- Addedcherry_planksinto the#planksblock and item tags.
- Addedcherry_pressure_plateinto the#wooden_pressure_platesblock and item tags.
- Addedcherry_saplinginto the#saplingsblock and item tag.
- Addedcherry_signinto the#standing_signsblock tag and#signsitem tag.
- Addedcherry_slabinto the#wooden_slabsblock and item tags.
- Addedcherry_stairsinto the#wooden_stairsblock and item tags.
- Addedcherry_trapdoorinto the#wooden_trapdoorsblock and item tags.
- Addedcherry_wall_hanging_signinto the#wall_hanging_signsblock tag.
- Addedcherry_wall_signinto the#wall_signsblock tag.
- Addedpink_petalsinto the#inside_step_sound_blocksblock tag.
- Addedsuspicious_sandinto the#sandblock and item tag.
- Addedtorchflowerinto the#small_flowersblock and item tags.
- Addedtorchflower_cropinto the#cropsblock tag.
- Changedflower_potin the#flower_potsblock tag topotted_cherry_sapling.

