# Java Edition 1.19.3
1.19.3 is a minor update to Java Edition released on December 7, 2022.[1] This update adds experimental features scheduled for 1.20, overhauls the creative inventory, tweaks settings and tags, and much more. This version is not compatible with 1.19.2 servers.

This update was originally planned to be released on December 6, 2022, but it had been postponed and released on December 7, 2022.

## Contents
- 1 Additions
	- 1.1 Items
	- 1.2 Command format
	- 1.3 Gameplay
	- 1.4 General
- 2 Changes
	- 2.1 Blocks
	- 2.2 Items
	- 2.3 Mobs
	- 2.4 Non-mob entities
	- 2.5 World generation
	- 2.6 Command format
	- 2.7 Gameplay
	- 2.8 General
- 3 Experimental
	- 3.1 Additions
		- 3.1.1 Blocks
		- 3.1.2 Items
		- 3.1.3 Mobs
		- 3.1.4 Non-mob entities
		- 3.1.5 General
	- 3.2 Changes
		- 3.2.1 Blocks
		- 3.2.2 Gameplay
- 4 Fixes
- 5 Video
- 6 Trivia
- 7 References

## Additions
### Items
** Spawn Eggs **
- Added spawn eggs for ender dragon, iron golem, snow golem and wither.
	- Ender dragon and wither spawn eggs will only be available through commands to prevent accidental destruction of player builds.

### Command format
** /fillbiome **
- A new command to change biome entries for an area.
	- Because biomes are not stored per-block, affected positions may not match input precisely.
- Syntax:/fillbiome [<from>] [<to>] [<biome>] replace [<filter>]
	- from: One corner of the area to fill.
	- to: The other corner of the area to fill.
	- biome: The biome to set.
	- filter: A biome or biome tag to replace.

### Gameplay
** Game rules **
- AddedblockExplosionDropDecay,mobExplosionDropDecayandtntExplosionDropDecay.
	- When set tofalse, all blocks drop loot.
	- When set totrue, blocks drop loot randomly depending on how far from the explosion center.
	- Defaults tofalsefor TNT,truefor block and mob.
- AddedsnowAccumulationHeight.
	- When it is snowing, this game rule determines the maximum number of snow layers that can be accumulated in each block.
	- Defaults to1.
	- Set to0makes no snow form at all.
	- Set to8or above lets snow form up to the level of a full block.
- AddedwaterSourceConversionandlavaSourceConversion.
	- When set totrue, allows new sources of that fluid to form.
	- Defaults totruefor water andfalsefor lava.
- AddedglobalSoundEvents, controlling whether certain gameplay moments are heard by all players regardless of location, defaults totrue.

### General
** Chat **
- Added drafts for player reports, which can keep player reports temporarily while connected to a server.
	- When exiting the Player Reporting screen, the report can be either discarded or kept as a draft.
		- The draft will always be kept if the screen was forcefully closed (e.g. player dying).
	- Draft reports are kept until the player leaves the current server or world.
		- When leaving, the player will be prompted to either discard or finish and send the report.

** Data packs **
- Added a subsection calledchat_type.
- Added a subsection calleddatapacks.
	- Contains Vanilla data packs that enable certain features.
- The Vanilla world generation data pack is now visible within the game's jar.
	- This means categories such asdimension_typeandworldgenare now visible, along with their contents.

** Feature Flags **
- Option to enable or disable certain groups of game elements (i.e. blocks, entities, and items).
	- Enabled viadata packs.
		- New pack metadata section calledfeatures, containing enabled feature flags in list namedenabled.
- Game elements controlled by feature flags are hardcoded and stored per world.
- Built-in data packs now enable features and provide other things such as associated recipes and advancements.
- Feature flags can affect:
	- Blocks
		- Disabled blocks are not recognized by commands, won't spawn in structures, won't be loaded as part of entities, and can't be interacted with by players.
	- Entities
		- Disabled entities are not recognized by commands, will not spawn or load in the world, and spawn eggs for disabled entities will not function.
	- Items
		- Disabled items are not recognized by commands, are hidden from the creative menu, can't be used by players for interacting or attacking, and recipes and loot tables cannot create disabled items.

** Languages **
- Added Nahuatl.
- Added Rusyn.

** Options **
- Added a new "Panorama Scroll Speed" accessibility option.
- Added Operator Items Tab option in the Controls menu, which is off by default.
- Added telemetry data collection screen.
	- Displays information about the type of data that is sent.
	- The level of data sent can be controlled between "Minimal" and "All".
		- "Minimal" sends only the required data.
		- "All" sends the required data, as well as optional data.
	- The default data level is "Minimal".

** Player **
- Added new default skins for offline players.
	- The old skins have been removed, with the new skins being located on a new folder.

** Predicate **
- Added new entity sub-predicates for some entity types with variants:
	- axolotl
		- variant- values:lucy,wild,gold,cyan,blue.
	- boat
		- Works for allboatsand allboat with chests.
		- variant- values:oak,spruce,birch,jungle,acacia,dark_oak,mangrove,bamboo.
	- fox
		- variant- values:red,snow.
	- mooshroom
		- variant- values:red,brown.
	- painting
		- variant- values: seepainting_variantregistry.
	- rabbit
		- variant- values:brown,white,black,white_splotched,gold,salt,evil.
	- horse
		- variant- values:white,creamy,chestnut,brown,black,gray,dark_brown.
		- Markings are separate value and not matched.
	- llama
		- variant- values:creamy,white,brown,gray.
	- villager
		- variant- values: seevillager_typeregistry.
		- Also works forzombie villagers.
		- Profession and level are separate values and not matched.
	- parrot
		- variant- values:red_blue,blue,green,yellow_blue,gray.
	- tropical_fish
		- variant- values:kob,sunstreak,snooper,dasher,brinely,spotty,flopper,stripey,glitter,blockfish,betty,clayfish.

** server.properties **
- Addedinitial-enabled-packsandinitial-disabled-packs.
	- Allows for which packs to be selected to load during world creation.
	- initial-enabled-packscontains a list of packs to be enabled (feature packs need to be explicitly enabled).
	- initial-disabled-packscontains a list of packs that will not be enabled automatically.
		- Data packs added after world creation will be disabled if they require features that are not enabled for the loaded world.

** Splashes **
- Added the following splash texts:
	- "You are valid!"
	- "I'm glad you're here!"
	- "You are welcome here!"
	- "Your gender is valid!"
	- "Contains infinite genders!"
	- "Made with lave!"
- Many of these new splashes reference gender identity.

** Tags **
- Added theall_signsblock tag.
	- Contains#signs.
- Added thecreeper_ignitersitem tag.
	- Containsflint_and_steel, andfire_charge.
- Added thefence_gatesitem tag.
	- Containsacacia_fence_gate,birch_fence_gate,dark_oak_fence_gate,jungle_fence_gate,oak_fence_gate,spruce_fence_gate,crimson_fence_gate,warped_fence_gate, andmangrove_fence_gate.
- Added theinvalid_spawn_insideblock tag.
	- Containsend portalandend gateway.

## Changes
### Blocks
** Chorus flower **
- Mobs no longer spawn on this block.

** Fence Gates **
- No longer provide center support beneath them.
	- For example, hanging signs cannot be placed under fence gates.

** Invisible blocks **
- Barriersandstructure voidsno longer produce particles when broken, for consistency with the light block.

** Scaffolding **
- Changed its texture.
- Mobs no longer spawn on this block.

** Shulker Box **
- Now will pop off blocks attached (such astorches) to the opened faces when opening.
	- While open, blocks which require support cannot be placed on these open faces.

** Spawners **
- No longer have a default mob spawn type when placed by a player, which was a pig previously.
- Will not emit fire particles when a mob spawn type has not been defined.
- Renamed to Monster Spawner to matchBedrock Edition, and removed purple text color.
- Pick-block now works for spawner blocks.
- The mob type is now displayed in the hover description of a spawner item stack.
	- If a mob type has not been defined yet, the hover description will describe how to set it.

### Items
** Bucket **
- Water buckets can now be emptied into waterlogged blocks.

** Spawn Eggs **
- Changed the colors of polar bear spawn egg, to distinguish it from the ghast spawn egg.

### Mobs
** Creepers **
- Can now be ignited byusingafire chargeon it.

** Enderman **
- Now only spawn at light level 7 and below inthe Nether, instead of 11 and below, to nerf certain portal-based mob farms.
- Blocks carried by endermen now use loot tables to generate drops when killed.
	- This is done by simulating the block being mined using aSilk Touchdiamond axe.

** Rabbits **
- Now always drop oneraw rabbitwhen killed, or onecooked rabbitwhen killed by fire.

** Skeleton and Wither Skeleton **
- Now only spawn at light level 7 and below inthe Nether, instead of 11 and below, to nerf certain portal-based mob farms.
- The process of converting tostraycan be interrupted now.

** Turtles **
- Now have a 5 minute cooldown afterbreeding.

** Vex **
- Changed its model and textures.
	- Retains a slightly oversized hitbox to make it easier to fight.

### Non-mob entities
** Minecart with Spawners **
- No longer have a default mob spawn type when placed by a player, which was a pig previously.
- Will not emit fire particles when a mob spawn type has not been defined.
- Renamed to Minecart with Monster Spawner.

### World generation
** Stronghold **
- The placement code has been changed to be more efficient, causing stronghold positions to shift.
	- They are still placed in concentric rings, but their positions in the rings may change by a few degrees.

### Command format
** /execute **
- Can now be conditional on biomes.
- Syntax:/execute if|unless biome [<pos>] [<biome>]

** /publish **
- Now has new arguments to enable commands and set the default game mode.
	- New syntax:/publish [<allowCommands>] [<gamemode>] [<port>]

### Gameplay
** Advancements **
- The advancement "Birthday Song" is now a regular advancement instead of a challenge.

** Creative Inventory **
- The ordering of tabs and the contents in the Creative Inventory have been overhauled to make the experience of finding relevant blocks and items easier.
	- Blocks and items have been moved into categories that fit them better.
	- Blocks are now ordered by their material as much as possible.
		- For example, all oak blocks and variants are now next to each other.
	- Some items can now be found in more than one tab.
	- Various tabs have been renamed or collapsed into others.
		- The new tabs for blocks are Building Blocks, Natural Blocks, Functional Blocks, Redstone Blocks, and Colored Blocks.
		- The new tabs for items are Tools & Utilities, Combat, Food & Drinks, Ingredients, and Spawn Eggs.
	- The search tab now lists items sequentially grouped by the other tabs.
		- For example, items found in building blocks will always appear before items in redstone blocks.
- Changed the icons of creative tabs for better color coding as well as to show most iconic visuals.
- Petrified Oak Slab has been removed from the Creative Inventory, but can still be accessed through commands.
- Operator-only blocks and items can now be found in the Operator Utilities tab when a player has both the "Operator Items Tab" option in Controls menu set toONand the required operator permissions.
	- This includes thebarrier, all variants ofcommand blocks,debug stick,jigsaw block,light block(level 0-15),minecart with command block,structure void, and thestructure block.
	- The tab is hidden if operator permissions are lost while inventory is open.
- Tooltips for all items in Creative Menu outside single-category tabs will show categories where this item can be found.
	- Previously this only happened on the search tab.
- The textures for the tabs are now skinnier.

** Pause Screen **
- The 'Game Menu' text heading has been moved to the top of the screen instead of being just right above the buttons.

** Spectator **
- "Teleport to Team Member" option in spectator menu now only shows up for teams with viable target players.

### General
** Chat **
- Removed Chat Preview.
- Chat messages deleted by server moderators will no longer be completely hidden, but rather replaced with text stating "This chat message has been deleted by the server."
- Deleted chat messages will now be displayed in the chat window for at least 3 total seconds before being hidden.
- The Chat Trust Status indicators have been tweaked:
	- The 'Modified' tag will no longer display for server-modified messages where only style has been changed.
	- The 'Modified' tag icon and indicator is now dark gray.
	- The 'Not Secure' tag is now light gray and does not have an icon.
- Partially filtered chat messages now show the filtered text as gray hashes with a hover text saying that it was filtered.
- The Chat Reporting screen now shows when the player being reported rejoined chat.

** Logging **
- Every telemetry event sent from the client is now logged to disk.
	- Old log files are removed after 7 days.
	- These can be found under thelogs/telemetrydirectory.
		- A shortcut to this directory is available via the "Open My Data" button on the telemetry data collection screen.

** Multiplayer **
- Makes changes to the Open to LAN screen.
- Now allows selecting the port on which to host the LAN world.
- The game mode and allow cheats buttons are now initialized with the default values of the world.

** Music **
- The Wild Update music has been tweaked to be slightly less loud.

** Options **
- Merged the "Minimum" and "Maximum" options for the smooth lighting video setting, since there's no difference between them.

** Protocol **
- The network protocol now supports adding player entities to the world without being added to the 'tab' player list.
- Servers can now lazily distribute players' profile public keys along with their first chat packet.
- Message 'headers' within the Secure Chat protocol no longer need to be distributed when private messages are sent.
- Contextual message references are now deduplicated for efficiency within the Secure Chat network protocol.
- Profile public keys will now be refreshed without reconnecting.
- Clients now reset their chat session on receiving a login packet.

** Realms **
- The Realms News button will now show a confirmation screen before opening the link.

** Recipes **
- Many recipe files were made to be formatted more consistently.
- Blocks and items that are crafted using nine of a single item are now considered shapeless recipes, though this has no impact on gameplay.
- Crafting book categories/tabs can now be controlled by recipe definitions.
- Categories available forshaped/shapelessand various special crafting recipes:
	- building
	- redstone
	- equipment
	- misc(default)
- Categories available for smelting,blasting,smoking,campfire_cooking
	- food
	- blocks
	- misc(default)
- Some crafting books collapse multiple categories into a single tab.
- The exact mappings might change in the future.

** Resource pack **
- The version is now12.
- Removed "fixers" for resource packs with versions3and4(pre-flattening).
	- The game will no longer try to adapt packs with those versions to the current version.
- To improve loading performance, block and item textures are now loaded before they are processed by block and item models.
	- By default, textures not in thetextures/itemandtextures/blockdirectories will no longer be automatically recognized and will fail to load.
- Can have configuration files now, located in the newatlasesdirectory, that control which images are included in the atlases. That directory contains following JSON entries for configuring atlases:
	- blocks: textures used by block and item models.
	- banner_patterns,beds,chests,shield_patterns,shulker_boxes,signs: used to render some special-case models.
	- mob_effects: textures used for effect icons in the UI.
	- paintings: textures used for paintings.
	- particles: textures used for particles (referenced by thetexturesfield in files within theparticlesdirectory).
- If multiple packs include those files, they are merged by their order within the pack (same as tags in data packs).
- Inside these files is a JSON object with a single list calledsources.
	- Every entry insourcesruns in during load, in order of definition, adding or removing new files to the texture list; to be later referenced by block models, particles, etc.
- Types of sources:
	- directory: lists all files in a directory and its subdirectories, across all namespaces.
		- source: directory in pack to be listed (relative totexturesdirectory)
		- prefix: string to be appended to the sprite name when loaded.
	- single: adds a single file.
		- resource: location of a resource within the pack (relative totexturesdirectory, implied.pngextension).
		- sprite: sprite name (optional, defaults toresource).
	- filter: removes sprites matching the given pattern.
		- namespace,path: patterns (regular expressions, regex) of ids to be removed (only works for entries already in the list), if omitted, any value will be matched.
	- unstitch: copies rectangular regions from other images.
		- resource: location of a resource within the pack (relative totexturesdirectory, implied.pngextension)
		- divisor_x,divisor_y: used for determining the units used by regions.
		- regions: list of regions to copy from the source image.
			- sprite: sprite name.
			- x,y: coordinates of the top-left corner of the region.
			- width,height: size of the region.
		- Values such asxare transformed to real image coordinates via dividing by their divisor, and then multiplying by the real image size.
- Example:
	- If a pack has a file namedassets/test/textures/fancy/iridium.pngand source is{"type": "directory", "source": "fancy", "prefix": "custom/"}, the texture will be available in models astest:custom/iridium.

** Sounds **
- Various wood types now have unique sounds when placed, broken, or walked on.
	- There are three sets of unique sounds: Overworld wood types, Nether wood types, and bamboo.
- Step sounds can now be heard when walking oncarpets,lily padsandsmall amethyst buds.
- Step sounds can now be heard when walking throughcrimson roots,glow lichen,nether sproutsandwarped roots.

** Tags **
- Removed#non_flammable_woodblock tag.
- Removed#overworld_natural_logsitem tag.
- Added crimson roots, glow lichen, lily pad, moss carpet, nether sprouts, small amethyst bud, warped roots and#wool_carpetsto the#inside_step_sound_blocksblock tag.

** Telemetry **
- AddedWorldUnloadedevent, and removed client Java version from theWorldLoadedevent.
	- They are required events.
	- Data includes game mode, client or server modded status and game version.
	- Can be used to calculate how long the world session has lasted (in seconds and ticks).
	- Data fromWorldLoadedis sent when a world is launched, and data fromWorldUnloadedis sent when a world is shut down (quitting to title, disconnecting from a server).
- Added 2 new optional events:
	- PerformanceMetrics
		- Data includes frame rates, rendering performance, memory usage, operating system, and the modded status of the client and server.
		- With game version, it can be used to compare the performance profile for new versions of Minecraft.
	- WorldLoadTimes
		- Data includes the total time in milliseconds for the world to load, whether this was a new world, as well as game version and platform details.
		- Can indicate what impacts load times when added new features or do larger technical changes.

** User interface **
- When tabbing through buttons, tooltips are displayed above or below them.
- Tooltips displayed when hovering are displayed next to the cursor.
- Tooltips from focused buttons (focused by pressing tab) take priority over tooltips from hovered buttons.
- Updatedknowledge booktextures on crafting UI andtutorial hintsto the revision updated in thetexture update.

** General **
- Migrated linear algebra types to Java OpenGL Math Library (JOML).
- Translation files andpack.mcmetaare now including non-ASCII characters (encoded as UTF-8) directly instead of using escape sequences.
- Optimized some exceptionally slow cases of structure lookup.

## Experimental
These additions and changes only take effect when the 1.20 experimental data pack is enabled, the exception to this is the re-addition of bundles, which only takes effect when enabling its respective experimental data pack.

### Additions
#### Blocks
** Bamboo Mosaics **
- A plank variant exclusive to the bamboo wood set.
	- Can be crafted with 2 bamboo slabs arranged in a vertical strip.
	- The bamboo mosaic has its ownstairandslabvariant.

** Block of Bamboo and Block of Stripped Bamboo **
- Two new log-like blocks.
- Block of bamboo can be crafted from 9bambooand can be stripped like other wood logs.
- Bamboo planks crafted from block of bamboo yield only 2 planks compared to 4 for wood logs.

** Buttons, Doors, Fences, Fence Gates, Planks, Pressure Plate, Signs, Slabs, Stairs and Trapdoors **
- Added theirbamboovariants.
- Bamboo planks can be crafted using 1 block of bamboo (stripped or unstripped) to craft 2 bamboo planks.

** Chiseled Bookshelves **
- Can be crafted with 6 planks and 3 wooden slabs.
- Can store up to 6 books, books and quills, written books, and enchanted books.
	- Books in chiseled bookshelves can be added or removed from any slot by targeting the specific slot.
	- Books are directly added and removed, so there is no interface.
- Can interact withredstone comparators(giving a signal strength matching that of the slot that was last interacted with).
- Do not increase the power ofenchanting tables.
- Require aSilk Touchaxe to mine.

** Hanging Signs **
- A more expensive version of normal signs, which can be crafted with 2chainsand 6stripped logs, resulting 6 of them.
- Has a total of 10 wood variants:oak,spruce,birch,jungle,acacia,dark oak,mangrove,bamboo,crimson, andwarped.
- Can be hung up in the following ways:
	- Underneath a block that provides support in the center, like a fence or an iron bar.
		- When the hanging sign is placed underneath a non-full block, or when placed while sneaking, the chains will take on an upside-down v-shape. Signs in this configuration can be placed in 16 different angles, similar to an armor stand.
	- Underneath a full block.
		- When the hanging sign is placed underneath a full block, the chains will be on parallel sides of the sign. Signs in this configuration can be placed in the 4 cardinal directions, North, South, East, and West.
	- Attached to the solid side of a block.
		- When attached to the side of a block, its chains will be parallel, hanging onto a horizontal bar sticking out from the side of said block. Hanging signs in this configuration will display text perpendicular to the side of the block they were attached to.
	- Attached to the side or underneath another hanging sign.
		- This will display the same way is being placed underneath a non-full block.
- Cannot be placed directly on the ground without support from the side or above.
	- However, hanging signs that have a horizontal bar will not break when the supporting block is removed.
- If it is hanging underneath of a block and that block is broken, the hanging sign will also break immediately.
- Unlike regular signs, the space available for text is much smaller.
- Text can be dyed with any color of dye and tinted withglow ink sacsto make text glow.

** Piglin Head **
- Piglinswill now drop their heads when killed by a chargedcreeper.
- The piglin head will flap its ears when powered by redstone, or when worn by a player while walking, similar to theender dragonhead.

#### Items
** Bundle **
- Moved behind its own feature toggle.

** Spawn Eggs **
- Camel spawn egg.

#### Mobs
** Camel **
- A rideable entity, which can be equipped with asaddleand ridden by two players.
- Has 32× 16health points.
- Spawns naturally indesert villages.
- Can be bred withcacti, and will follow players holding a cactus on hand.
- Mobs that are 2 blocks tall and lower cannot reach the player (except spiders) when the player is riding it, due to its height.
- Can walk over 1.5 block tall obstacles (such as fences and blocks with a slab on top).
- Will randomly sit down.
	- While sitting, it is difficult to convince them to move.
- Can either walk slowly or sprint quickly.
- Can also dash forward (if the player uses the jump key while riding it) but will lose stamina for a while.
	- When it loses stamina, it cannot sprint or dash again for a few seconds.
	- A dash can extend more than 10 blocks when executed perfectly.

#### Non-mob entities
** Boats and Boat with Chests **
- Added bamboo raft and bamboo raft with chest.
	- Can be crafted with bamboo planks instead.
	- They function the same as ordinary boats, but have a unique look to them.

#### General
** Tags **
- Added theall_hanging_signsblock tag.
	- Contains theceiling_hanging_signs, andwall_hanging_signstags.
- Added the#bamboo_blocksblock and item tag.
	- Containsbamboo_block, andstripped_bamboo_block.
- Added theceiling_hanging_signsblock tag.
	- Contains all ceiling versions of hanging sign blocks.
- Added thewall_hanging_signsblock tag.
	- Contains all wall versions of hanging sign blocks.
- Added thebookshelf_booksitem tag.
	- Contains book, written book, enchanted book, and book and quill.
- Added thehanging_signsitem tag.
	- Contains all hanging sign items.
- Added#bamboo_blocks, bamboo mosaic slab and bamboo mosaic stairs to the#mineable/axeblock tag.
- Added crimson hanging sign and warped hanging sign to the#non_flammable_wooditem tag.
- Added relevant bamboo blocks to theplanks,wooden_buttons,wooden_doors,wooden_fences,wooden_pressure_plates,wooden_slabs,wooden_stairs, andwooden_trapdoorsblock and item tags.
- Added relevant bamboo blocks to thefence_gates,standing_signs, andwall_signsblock tags.
- Added relevant bamboo items to theboats,chest_boats, andsignsitem tags.
- Added bamboo fence gate to the new#fence_gatesitem tag, as the additional part when built-in data pack enabled.
- Added#all_hanging_signsto the new#all_signsblock tag, as the additional part when built-in data pack enabled.

### Changes
#### Blocks
** Note Block **
- When placing a mobheadon a note block, that note block will now play one of the ambient sounds of that mob when played by a player or powered byredstone.

** Player Head **
- Now can contain anote_block_soundNBT tag.
	- Must be aresource locationfor a valid sound event.
	- When present, this determines the sound anote blockmakes when the head is placed on top of it.

#### Gameplay
** Advancement **
- Camelsare now required for the "Two by Two" advancement.
- "Glow and Behold!" advancement can be obtained by using aglow ink sacon ahanging signnow.
	- The description now says "Make the text of any sign glow".

