# Java Edition 1.20.3
1.20.3 is a minor update to Java Edition, released on December 5, 2023,[1] which improves shields, adds new functionality for decorated pots, introduces a new look for bats, adds the /tick command, changes chat component serialization, and fixes bugs, alongside an experimental toggle for features that will be included in the next major update.[2][3]

## Contents
- 1 Additions
	- 1.1 Command format
	- 1.2 General
- 2 Changes
	- 2.1 Blocks
	- 2.2 Items
	- 2.3 Mobs
	- 2.4 Non-mob entities
	- 2.5 Command format
	- 2.6 General
- 3 Experimental
	- 3.1 Additions
		- 3.1.1 Blocks
		- 3.1.2 Items
		- 3.1.3 Mobs
		- 3.1.4 Non-mob entities
		- 3.1.5 World generation
		- 3.1.6 General
	- 3.2 Changes
		- 3.2.1 Gameplay
		- 3.2.2 General
- 4 Fixes
- 5 Video
- 6 References

## Additions
### Command format
** /tick **
- A new administrative and debugging command which allows the player to control the ticking flow and measure the performance of the game.
	- Requires elevated permissions (admins and above), and so it is not by default available incommand blocksanddata packs.
	- Syntaxes:
		- /tick query
			- Outputs the current target ticking rate, with information about the tick times performance.
		- /tick rate <rate>
			- Sets a custom target ticking rate to the specified value. The valueratemust be greater than1.0and lower than10000.0.
		- /tick freeze
			- Freezes all gameplay elements, except forplayersand anyentitya player isriding.
		- /tick step <time>
			- Only works when the game is frozen. It runs the game for the specified number of ticks and then freezes the game again.This allows to step through the game a set amount of ticks at a time.
			- The parameter is optional. The default value is1.
		- /tick step stop
			- Stops the current stepping process, and re-freezes the game.
		- /tick unfreeze
			- Unfreezes the game and resumes all gameplay elements.
		- /tick sprint <time>
			- Runs the game while ignoring the set ticking target rate for the specified number of ticks. At the end of the sprint, the game will resume the previous ticking target and display performance information about the tick times while sprinting.
		- /tick sprint stop
			- Stops the current/tick sprint, and resumes the previous ticking target.

### General
** Experiments **
- Added the "Update 1.21" experimental toggle (update_1_21data pack).

** Game rule **
- AddedmaxCommandForkCount, to control the maximum number of forks (contexts) that can be created during one tick. Applies to command blocks and functions. Defaults to65536.
- AddedplayersNetherPortalDefaultDelay, to control time (ingame ticks) that a player needs to stand in anether portalbefore changing dimensions, while in Survival and Adventure mode. Defaults to80.
- AddedplayersNetherPortalCreativeDelay, to control time (in game ticks) that a player needs to stand in a nether portal before changing dimensions, while in Creative mode. Defaults to1.
- AddedprojectilesCanBreakBlocks, to control whether impact projectiles will destroy blocks that are destructible by them (i.e.chorus flowers,pointed dripstoneanddecorated pots). Defaults totrue.

** Loading screen **
- Added a new screen for handling corrupted level files.
	- It gives the player the option to restore a backup, and a quick link to the bug tracker for reporting a bug about it.

** Options **
- Added "Hide Splash Texts" in accessibility options, which allows thesplashin the main menu to be hidden.

** options.txt **
- AddedhideSplashTexts, defaults tofalse.

** Particles **
- Added newdust_plume,gust,gust_dust,trial_spawner_detectionandwhite_smokeparticle types.

** Tags **
- Added following damage type tag:
	- #can_break_armor_stand: containsplayer_attack, andplayer_explosion.
		- Used for damage types that can incrementally knock down armor stands.
- Added following entity tags:
	- #can_breathe_under_water: contains#undead,axolotl,frog,guardian,elder_guardian,turtle,glow_squid,cod,pufferfish,salmon,squid,tropical_fish,tadpole, andarmor_stand.
		- Used to disable drowning.
	- #undead: contains#skeletons,#zombies,wither, andphantom.
	- #zombies: containszombie_horse,zombie,zombie_villager,zombified_piglin,zoglin,drowned, andhusk.

## Changes
### Blocks
** Decorated Pot **
- Now can store up to a single stack of items.
	- Hoppers,minecart with hoppersanddropperscan now insert and/or extract items from them.
	- Comparatorscan now read the number of items in them.
	- Playerscan interact with them and insert items into them.
		- Player interactions with them cause them to wobble and trigger a vibration frequency of 11.
	- They have no GUI, and need to be broken to retrieve their content by players.
- Now can be smashed by projectiles, which cause them to shatter and drop their contents.
- Now has new sounds for breaking, shattering and being stepped on.
- Now can stack up to 64.
- Now appears in the Redstone tab of the Creative inventory.
- Now, when blockstatecrackedset totrue, decorated pots will always shatter when broken.
- Now can utilize loot tables and will read from theLootTabletag key.

** Grass **
- Renamed Grass to Short Grass.
- The ID has been changed fromgrasstoshort_grass.

** Jigsaw Block **
- Added two new input fields in the edit screen.
	- Selection Priority
		- When the parent piece is being processed for connections, this controls the order in which this jigsaw block attempts to connect to its target piece.
		- Jigsaws will be processed in descending priority order and randomly within the same priority.
	- Placement Priority
		- When this jigsaw block connects to a piece, this is the order in which that piece is processed for connections in the wider structure.
		- Pieces will be processed in descending priority order with the default insertion order breaking ties within the same priority.
	- This functionality has been added to support the ability for jigsaw structures to generate branches in a depth-first order, as well as give finer control over ordering of connections.
	- All existing jigsaw blocks will default their selection and placement priority to 0, resulting in the same behavior as before these two configurable values were introduced.
- Increased maximum value of structure variablesizefrom 7 to 20.

** Monster Spawner **
- Now renders their inner faces when looking inside.

### Items
** Arrows **
- Now keep theirCustomNameafter being shot and picked up.
- Special arrows, such asspectral arrows, no longer revert to regular arrows when shot and picked up.

** Ender Pearl **
- Thrown ender pearls produce a teleportation sound on impact.

** Shield **
- When a player is blocking with a shield, the arm with the shield now follows the direction the player is looking at, when viewed from third person perspective.
- Will now block damage while the player faces straight up.

### Mobs
** Bat **
- Their model, animations, and texture have been updated.

### Non-mob entities
** General **
- The name of them will now be shown if looked at and aCustomNameis set, or always displayed ifCustomNameVisibleis set, similar to living entities.

### Command format
** Function **
- /functioncommand has been changed to better accommodate new/returncommand.
- Functions no longer have any result unless they use/returnor there was an error during lookup or instantiation.
	- That means/functioncommand will no longer return (or even display) the number of commands run during execution.
	- Error conditions:
		- Calling non-existent function.
		- Calling empty function tag.
		- Macro instantiation failure.
- "Result" in this context means values that would be stored with/execute store.
- The previous behavior where every command in a function would perform store if a function was called with/execute store ... run functionis removed.
	- That means that a single call tofunctionwill store at most once (zero times if/returnwas not called).
	- For function tags with multiple entries, function results will be accumulated, but partial results will be stored at the end of every function.
- Existing limits for functions have been refined to accommodate new execution rules and prevent a wider range of exploits:
	- Limits apply even if run from command line (so it will now always behave as if they were placed in a function).
		- For example, all functions called by/execute as @e run functionwill count towards the same limit.
		- Executions from command blocks still count as separate ones.
	- LimitmaxCommandChainLengthfor functions will now count "operations" like:
		- Execution of command for a single context.
		- Execution of a stage in/execute(no matter how many contexts were modified).
		- Invocation of function.
	- A new limit with game rulemaxCommandForkCountnow restricts the total amount of context that can be created by single state of functions like/execute.
		- Example: if there are 5 entities in world,/execute as @ecreates 5 contexts, while/execute as @e at @ecreates 5*5 = 25 contexts.

** /execute **
- Re-added(if|unless) functionsubcommand.
	- A new execute sub-command that runs a function or function tag and matches the return value(s). If a tag is given, all functions run regardless of the results of prior functions.
	- Syntax:/execute (if|unless) function <function> -> [execute]
	- Arguments:
		- function: The function or tag to run.
	- The matching of the result value of the function(s) that run:
		- At least one of the functions must succeed for the match to succeed.
		- A successful call is defined as a function that:
			- Uses the/returncommand to return a value.
			- The return value is not 0.
		- If no functions exited with/return, neitherifnorunlesswill run.
	- It will not always fail if all functions had no return.
		- If there were no/returns in called functions,ifwill fail andunlesswill pass.
		- First/returnin any of called functions will return (for a single context).

** /function **
- If/function <function tag>runs multiple functions in combination with/return run, execution will stop after first/returnin any of the functions.
- A single call to the/functioncommand will always have return when run with/return run.
	- For example,/return run execute [split context] run function <some function with conditional return>will always return after processing the first context.

** /return **
- Re-addedrunsubcommand:/return run <command>.
	- This takes the result value from running the specifiedcommandand returns that as the return value of the function.
		- If command did not return any value (like, for example, call to a function without/return),/returnwill not execute and function will continue execution.
		- If the given command fails, the return value is0.
		- In all other aspects, it works like/returnwith a specifiedreturnvalue.
		- In case of fork (for example/return run execute as @e run some_command), the first execution of the command will return.
			- If there are no executions (for example in/return run execute if @e[something_impossible] run some_command), function will not return and will continue execution.
	- It will always return.
		- If there are no valid results from returned command, function containing/return runwill fail (i.e.success=0andresult=0).
	- It will propagate success value together with results value.
	- It also allows storing values, which means/execute store ... run return run some_commandwill both store value and return it outside function.
- Added new subcommand/return fail, to make whole function fail (i.e. returnsuccess=0andresult=0).

** /scoreboard **
- New subcommands for changing the display of specific scoreboard entries in the sidebar:
	- /scoreboard objectives modify <objective> displayautoupdate (true|false)
		- Determines whether the objective should automatically update on every score update (disabled by default)
	- /scoreboard players display name <targets> <objective> <text component>
		- Changes the display name of the given scoreboard entries.
	- /scoreboard players display name <targets> <objective>
		- Resets the display name of the given scoreboard entries to their default.
	- /scoreboard players display numberformat <targets> <objective> <format>
		- Changes the number format of the given scoreboard entries (see below for more information).
	- /scoreboard players display numberformat <targets> <objective>
		- Resets the number format of the given scoreboard entries.
	- /scoreboard objectives modify <objective> numberformat <format>
		- Changes the default number format of the given objective (see below for more information).
	- /scoreboard objectives modify <objective> numberformat
		- Resets the default number format of the given objective.
- Number formats:
	- styled <style>
		- The score will be displayed with the selected style (e.g.{"bold":true}.
	- fixed <text component>
		- The score is replaced by the given text component.
	- blank
		- The score is not shown.

### General
** Custom structure **
- Changes to structure type definitions (data/minecraft/worldgen/structure):
	- Added optionalpool_aliaseslist to jigsaw structures.
	- Aliases represent the possibility to rewire jigsaw pool connections by redirecting pool references on individual structure instances.
	- Alias variants are represented intypeand is one of:
		- direct: 1:1 mapping from an alias to a new pool.
			- alias: Pool to replace.
			- target: Pool to replace with.
		- random: 1:n mapping where a pool fromnis randomly selected for the structure instance.
			- alias: Pool to replace.
			- targets: Randomized list of candidate pools to replacealiaswith.
		- random_group
			- groups: Each group is a randomized list of above alias types.
			- Only one group is selected per structure instance.
			- This enables modelling selections such as "if pool X is replaced with X1, also replace pool Y with Y1".

** Data pack **
- The version is now26.

** Entity format **
- In NBT format for entity typetnt:
	- Addedblock_state.
		- This field allows replacement of rendered block model.
	- RenamedFusetofuse.
- In NBT format for entity typearrow, andspectral_arrow:
	- Addeditem.
		- This field is the item that will be picked up.
- In NBT format for entity typetrident:
	- RenamedTridenttoitem.

** Processor list **
- Addedtrial_chambers_copper_bulb_degradation.

** Raw JSON text format **
- Plain-text chat components (text, no sibilings, no stylings) are now always serialized as string instead of{"text": "your text"}.
- Chat components now serialize to NBT when sent over network.
	- Components of typenbtnow havesourcefield with allowed values:entity,block, andstorage.
- Chat components now have an optional type value (allowed values:text,translatable,score,selector,nbt, andkeybind) to speed up parsing and improve error checking.
- idfield inshow_entityhoverEventstyle now also accepts UUID as an array of 4 integers.
- Numeric and boolean arguments fortranslatecomponent are no longer converted to string.
- The following JSON component representations are no longer accepted:
	- null
	- []
- Errors in following style fields are no longer silently ignored:
	- color
	- clickEvent
	- hoverEvent
	- hoverEvent[action=show_entity].contents.name
	- hoverEvent[action=show_item].contents.tag

** Realms **
- Realms are now available in Snapshots, Pre-Releases, and Release Candidates.
	- Any player who has an active Realms subscription is eligible to create a free Snapshot Realm.
	- Snapshot Realms will be separate from the regular Realms to prevent any issues from impacting regular Realms.
- The version of the last played world on a Realm is displayed in the Realms list.
- Experiments are available for newly created worlds.

** Resource pack **
- The version is now22.
- Added block model, item model and block state definitions forcrafter.
- Added GUI container texture and sprites forcrafter.
- Addedwhite_smokeparticle definition.
- bat.pnghas been updated for the new bat model.
- Added block models, items models and block state definitions for the following blocks:
	- chiseled_copper,exposed_chiseled_copper,weathered_chiseled_copper,oxidized_chiseled_copper,copper_grate,exposed_copper_grate,weathered_copper_grate,oxidized_copper_grate,copper_bulb,exposed_copper_bulb,weathered_copper_bulb,oxidized_copper_bulb,copper_door,exposed_copper_door,weathered_copper_door,oxidized_copper_door,copper_trapdoor,exposed_copper_trapdoor,weathered_copper_trapdoor,oxidized_copper_trapdoor,tuff_stairs,tuff_slab,tuff_wall,chiseled_tuff,polished_tuff,polished_tuff_stairs,polished_tuff_slab,polished_tuff_wall,tuff_bricks,tuff_brick_stairs,tuff_brick_slab,tuff_brick_wall, andchiseled_tuff_bricks.
- Added unique sprites for the following blocks:
	- chiseled_copper,exposed_chiseled_copper,weathered_chiseled_copper,oxidized_chiseled_copper,copper_grate,exposed_copper_grate,weathered_copper_grate,oxidized_copper_grate,copper_bulb,exposed_copper_bulb,weathered_copper_bulb,oxidized_copper_bulb,copper_door,exposed_copper_door,weathered_copper_door,oxidized_copper_door,copper_trapdoor,exposed_copper_trapdoor,weathered_copper_trapdoor,oxidized_copper_trapdoor,chiseled_tuff,polished_tuff,tuff_bricks, andchiseled_tuff_bricks.
- uniformfont has been updated to use Unifont 15.1.04 (from 15.0.06).
- The only supported texture format is now.png.
- Changes to downloaded/world resource pack handling.
	- Changes apply to world resource packs (resources.zip), Realms resource packs and resource packs controlled by dedicated servers.
- UI Download screen has been replaced with a toast.
- World resource pack application will start together with chunk loading.
- Downloaded packs are now stored in downloads directory (with different file organization than oldserver-resource-packs)
	- Files in this directory are no longer automatically cleaned (previously only up to 10 packs were kept).
	- Additionally, inside this directory there is also log filelog.jsonthat stores information about downloaded files for debug purposes.
- Downloaded packs now have unique id (GUID/UUID) that can be used to differentiate them.
	- This value for dedicated server pack can be configured with theresource-pack-idoption inserver.properties.
	- If the value is missing, it will be generated based on URL.
	- If hash of a pack is not set, this pack will be redownloaded before every application.
	- Previously, if hash was missing, the latest downloaded version of a pack was applied.
- In local storage, only up to 20 server resource packs are cached.
- Client now sends additional updates about packs (like download success).

** Tags **
- Addedfirework_rocketinto theimpact_projectilesentity tag.
- Addedskeleton_horseinto#skeletonsentity tag.

** Telemetry **
- Small tweaks to the telemetry data collection screen, such as a box for allowing or denying collection of optional data.

** General **
- Some additional options are added for 3rd-party servers software:
	- Client can now accept multiple server resource packs.
	- New packet was added to un-apply server resource packs.
	- Resource packs are no longer cleaned when entering configuration phase.

## Experimental
These additions and changes only take effect when the Update 1.21 experimental data pack is enabled.

### Additions
#### Blocks
** Chiseled Copper **
- Have 8 variants in 4 oxidation levels, waxed or not waxed.
- Can be crafted both incrafting tableandstonecutter:
	- When in crafting table, consume 2cut copper slabsfrom the same type, resulting in 1 chiseled copper with the same type.
	- When in stonecutter, consume 1block of copper, resulting in 4 chiseled copper, or 1cut copper, resulting in 1 chiseled copper; all from the same type.

** Copper Bulb **
- A light-emitting block that can toggle its light emission through redstone pulses.
- Have 8 variants in 4 oxidation levels, waxed or not waxed.
- Can be crafted in crafting table with a cross pattern, by 3 blocks of copper from the same type, 1blaze rodin the center slot, and 1redstone dustin the bottom slot, resulting in 1 copper bulb with the same type.
- They emit less light the more oxidized they are. From less oxidized to most oxidized, they emit block light levels of 15, 12, 8, and 4, respectively.
- While powered by a redstone signal, a redstone crystal in the center of them will glow.
- They have following properties:
	- Only toggle their light on or off when receiveing a redstone pulse. Their state will not be changed if the source of the redstone pulse is removed.
	- When the light is on, redstone comparators will read a redstone signal strength of 15.
	- Don't conduct redstone power.

** Copper Door and Copper Trapdoor **
- Have 8 variants in 4 oxidation levels, waxed or not waxed.
- Works like wooden doors in that they can be opened and closed by the player as well as redstone.
- Can be crafted as other doors, with blocks of copper from the same type (instead ofingots, as iniron doors).

** Copper Grate **
- A new type of decorative block unique to the copper family.
- Have 8 variants in 4 oxidation levels, waxed or not waxed.
- Can be crafted both in crafting table and stonecutter:
	- When in crafting table, consume 4 blocks of copper from the same type in rhombic pattern, resulting in 1 copper grate with the same type.
	- When in stonecutter, consume 1 block of copper, resulting in 4 copper grate from the same type.
- They are transparent, so they allow light to pass through and cannot conduct redstone, prevent mob spawning on top of them, and do not suffocate mobs who end up with their head inside them.
- Can bewaterlogged.
	- Acts similarly to waterloggedmangrove roots; water will not flow out of any of the block's faces.

** Crafter **
- A variant ofcrafting table, can be crafted with fiveiron ingots, a crafting table, tworedstone dusts, and adropperin the crafting table.
- Crafters can be oriented in any direction when placed.
- Apickaxecan increase the speed of mining them.
- Have a user interface similar to crafting table.
	- Have 3×3 interactable crafting grid.
	- Their crafting grid slots are toggleable, meaning that the player can change the behavior of a slot by clicking or pressing on a slot with an empty hand.
		- A toggled slot cannot hold any items and therefore cannot have items placed into it by other blocks such ashoppersand droppers.
		- A toggled slot can be toggled off by player, whether clicked directly or holding item(s), pressing slot keys associated with an empty or a not empty hotbar slot.
	- Unlike the crafting table, the slots display a preview of the crafted item which will be crafted and ejected on the next redstone pulse, but cannot be manually taken out by the player.
	- The user interface is shared between all players interacting with them, meaning that multiple players can interact with them at the same time, similar tochestsand hoppers.
	- The user interface does not have arecipe bookto provide help, so the player must know the recipes.
- The crafter ejects one crafted item at a time when powered by a new redstone pulse, a redstone signal that is not a continuous signal.
	- Upon receiving this new signal, crafters eject the recipe result from the front face.
	- All the result items will be ejected together when the output result has multiple type of items.
- They can interact with hoppers and droppers, to input/output automatically.
	- Hoppers can be used to both insert and pull items out of them.
	- Droppers can be used to insert items into them.
	- Moving items in from another block with a hopper or a dropper prioritizes filling items into slots, by following these rules:
		- If there is a toggled slot, skipped.
		- If there is not a toggled slot, crafters prioritize the first empty slot from left-to-right and top-to-bottom.
		- If there is not a toggled slot, and there are no empty slots, crafters prioritize the smallest stack of the same item. If there are multiple possible stacks, pick the first from left-to-right and top-to-bottom.
	- If failed to select a slot, hoppers and droppers will not take any action.
- When read by aredstone comparator, the redstone signal strength is 0 to 9, where each non-empty or toggled slot adds 1 strength.

** Trial Spawner **
- Trial spawner is a new variant ofmonster spawnersthat ejects rewards upon completion and can have variable levels of challenge in multiplayer.
- The challenge level will increase for each new player a trial spawner notices nearby.
	- Challenge level will not decrease until it is reset during a trial spawner's cooldown.
- Unlike normal spawners, a trial spawner will spawn a limited number of mobs proportional to its current challenge level.
	- It can only spawn a mob at positions that are within line of sight.
	- It can spawn a mob regardless of any light level requirement the mob has.
	- Spawned mobs are persistent and will not despawn.
- Once all mobs are defeated, the trial spawner will eject a set of rewards proportional to the current challenge level.
	- After the rewards have been ejected, the trial spawner goes into cooldown for 30 minutes during which it will no longer spawn mobs.
- Trial spawners cannot be crafted nor obtained by players in Survival - instead, they can be found naturally placed throughout trial chambers.
- Trial spawners are extremely slow to mine and resistant to explosions, and will not drop even withSilk Touch.
- When placed in Creative, trial spawners have no mob type set by default.
	- The mob type can be set by interacting with it while holding a spawn egg.
- Creative and Spectator players cannot be detected or noticed by trial spawners.

** Tuff family **
- Added following blocks:
	- Tuff Stairs
	- Tuff Slab
	- Tuff Wall
	- Chiseled Tuff
	- Polished Tuff
	- Polished Tuff Stairs
	- Polished Tuff Slab
	- Polished Tuff Wall
	- Tuff Bricks
	- Tuff Brick Stairs
	- Tuff Brick Slab
	- Tuff Brick Wall
	- Chiseled Tuff Bricks
- Can be crafted in crafting table or stonecutter like others.

#### Items
** Spawn Egg **
- Added breeze spawn egg.

** Trial Key **
- An item that can only be obtained from trial spawners.
- Currently don't have any functionality.

#### Mobs
** Breeze **
- The breeze is a cunning, hostile mob that can spawn via trial spawner in some rooms within the trial chambers.
- Has 30× 15health points.
- Cannot be hit byarrowsortridents.
- The breeze moves primarily by leaping around the target, sometimes jumping quite long distances.
- An aggressive adversary, the breeze shoots volatile wind energy in the form of wind charge projectiles at its target.
- Wind charges deal a small amount of damage when colliding directly with an entity.
- After colliding with an entity or a block, wind charge projectiles produce a wind burst, which knocks back entities in the area by several blocks.
- Wind bursts also have the effect of 'activating' certain blocks:
	- Non-iron doors and trapdoors are flipped.
	- Fence gates are flipped.
	- Buttons are pressed.
	- Levers are flipped.
	- Bells are rung and swung.
	- Lit candles (both standalone and on cake) are extinguished.
- Wind bursts do not have any effect on iron doors, iron trapdoors, or any block being held in its position by a redstone signal.
- Currently does not drop any loot.

#### Non-mob entities
** Wind Charge **
- Fired by thebreeze.
- Explodes upon impact, emitting a large burst of plumeparticlesandknockingentities back similar to a TNT explosion.
- Its explosion interacts with certain blocks, includingbuttonsandtrapdoors.
- Deals damage when colliding directly with a player or mob.
- Wind charges breakdecorated potandchorus flowersupon collision.
- Can be deflected, just like shulker bullets.

#### World generation
** Trial Chambers **
- Trial chambers are a new structure in the Overworld where players can explore and take on combat challenges during the mid-game.
	- Trial chambers are made out of a variety of copper and tuff blocks and can be found in different sizes from large to small.
	- Trial chambers are a relatively common find throughout the deepslate layer of the underground, with the starting piece generating at a height between-40and-20.
- The layout of each trial chamber is procedurally generated, and can include traps, supply and reward chests, decorated pots, and a variety of combat spaces.
	- Traps include dispensers containing different potential items, such asarrowsorfire charges.
	- Supply chests can be found between the different rooms, and give the player blocks and items which help them navigate their trials.
	- Reward chests are guarded by challenges in each room, and can be a source of many high level enchanted books and equipment.
	- Decorated pots found in hallways can contain supplies such as iron or arrows. Some pots are decorated and others are blank.
	- The loot found in reward chests and decorated pots are still being iterated, and are absolutely not final as well as the loot from defeating mobs from a trial spawner.
- Each trial chamber will include trial spawners with a melee, small melee, or ranged category:
	- Melee
		- Zombie
		- Husk
		- Slime
	- Small Melee
		- Spider
		- Cave Spider
		- Baby Zombie
		- Silverfish
	- Ranged
		- Skeleton
		- Stray
		- Skeleton with Poison Tipped Arrows
- Each trial spawner category will only use one mob for the entire structure when generated, and these mobs are randomized for each trial chamber.
	- For example, one trial chamber might only spawn zombies, cave spiders and strays, while another might only spawn slimes, silverfish and skeletons.
	- The exceptions to this are some trial spawners in unique rooms which always spawn breezes.
- Regular mob spawning does not happen inside the bounding boxes of the trial chamber pieces.

#### General
** Tags **
- Added following damage type tag:
	- #breeze_immune_to: containsarrow, andtrident.
- Added following entity type tags:
	- #can_turn_in_boats: containsbreeze.
	- #deflects_arrows: containsbreeze.
	- #deflects_tridents: containsbreeze.
- Added following biome tag:
	- #has_structure/trial_chambers: contains#is_overworld.

### Changes
#### Gameplay
** Advancements **
- Thebreezenow counts for "Monster Hunter", and is now required for "Monsters Hunted".

#### General
** Resource pack **
- Added entity models and textures for experimental breeze mob:
	- breeze,wind_charge.
- Added shader:
	- breeze_wind.

** Tags **
- Addedbreezeinto#fall_damage_immuneentity type tag.
- Addedtrial_spawnerinto the#features_cannot_replace, and#lava_pool_stone_cannot_replaceblock tags.
- Addedwind_chargeinto the#impact_projectilesentity type tag.
- Addedcrafter,tuff_slab,tuff_stairs,tuff_wall,chiseled_tuff,polished_tuff,polished_tuff_slab,polished_tuff_stairs,polished_tuff_wall,tuff_bricks,tuff_brick_slab,tuff_brick_stairs,tuff_brick_wall,chiseled_tuff_bricks,chiseled_copper,exposed_chiseled_copper,weathered_chiseled_copper,oxidized_chiseled_copper,waxed_chiseled_copper,waxed_exposed_chiseled_copper,waxed_weathered_chiseled_copper,waxed_oxidized_chiseled_copper,copper_grate,exposed_copper_grate,weathered_copper_grate,oxidized_copper_grate,waxed_copper_grate,waxed_exposed_copper_grate,waxed_weathered_copper_grate,waxed_oxidized_copper_grate,copper_bulb,exposed_copper_bulb,weathered_copper_bulb,oxidized_copper_bulb,waxed_copper_bulb,waxed_exposed_copper_bulb,waxed_weathered_copper_bulb,waxed_oxidized_copper_bulb,copper_door,exposed_copper_door,weathered_copper_door,oxidized_copper_door,waxed_copper_door,waxed_exposed_copper_door,waxed_weathered_copper_door,waxed_oxidized_copper_door,copper_trapdoor,exposed_copper_trapdoor,weathered_copper_trapdoor,oxidized_copper_trapdoor,waxed_copper_trapdoor,waxed_exposed_copper_trapdoor,waxed_weathered_copper_trapdoor, andwaxed_oxidized_copper_trapdoorintomineable/pickaxeblock tag.
- Addedcrafter,chiseled_copper,exposed_chiseled_copper,weathered_chiseled_copper,oxidized_chiseled_copper,waxed_chiseled_copper,waxed_exposed_chiseled_copper,waxed_weathered_chiseled_copper,waxed_oxidized_chiseled_copper,copper_grate,exposed_copper_grate,weathered_copper_grate,oxidized_copper_grate,waxed_copper_grate,waxed_exposed_copper_grate,waxed_weathered_copper_grate,waxed_oxidized_copper_grate,copper_bulb,exposed_copper_bulb,weathered_copper_bulb,oxidized_copper_bulb,waxed_copper_bulb,waxed_exposed_copper_bulb,waxed_weathered_copper_bulb,waxed_oxidized_copper_bulb,copper_trapdoor,exposed_copper_trapdoor,weathered_copper_trapdoor,oxidized_copper_trapdoor,waxed_copper_trapdoor,waxed_exposed_copper_trapdoor,waxed_weathered_copper_trapdoor, andwaxed_oxidized_copper_trapdoorintoneeds_stone_toolblock tag.
- Addedtuff_slab,polished_tuff_slab, andtuff_brick_slabintoslabsblock and item tags.
- Addedtuff_stairs,polished_tuff_stairs, andtuff_brick_stairsintostairsblock and item tags.
- Addedcopper_trapdoor,exposed_copper_trapdoor,weathered_copper_trapdoor,oxidized_copper_trapdoor,waxed_copper_trapdoor,waxed_exposed_copper_trapdoor,waxed_weathered_copper_trapdoor, andwaxed_oxidized_copper_trapdoorinto#trapdoorsblock tag.
- Addedcopper_door,exposed_copper_door,weathered_copper_door,oxidized_copper_door,waxed_copper_door,waxed_exposed_copper_door,waxed_weathered_copper_door, andwaxed_oxidized_copper_doorinto#doorsblock tag.
- Addedtuff_wall,polished_tuff_wall, andtuff_brick_wallintowallsblock and item tags.
- Addedcopper_door,exposed_copper_door,weathered_copper_door,oxidized_copper_door,waxed_copper_door,waxed_exposed_copper_door,waxed_weathered_copper_door, andwaxed_oxidized_copper_doorintowooden_doorsblock tag.

