# Lake (disambiguation)
Lakes are bodies of liquids that are limited in size. In Minecraft, lake-like formations can be generated by a variety of biomes, features and terrain features, that are often mistakenly called "lakes", despite that there is no single cause for their generation.

The following biomes, features or terrain features are commonly referred to as "lakes":

## Contents
- 1 Biomes
- 2 Features
- 3 Terrain features
- 4 Removed features

## Biomes
- A smalloceanbiome surrounded by land on all sides.
- A wide section of ariverbiome.

- A small ocean biome resembling a lake.
- A wide river biome resembling a lake.

## Features
- Lava lakes, small pools of lava that generate in the Overworld above Y=0.
- Deltas, one-block-deep sheets of constrained lava found inbasalt deltasbiomes in the Nether.
- Clay pools, shallow water pools surrounded byclayfound inlush cavesbiomes.

- A lava lake.
- Deltas in a basalt deltas biome.
- The Lush Caves seed template, featuring clay pools with an axolotl.

## Terrain features
- Alarge lake, where the terrain generates below the local water level in a non-aquatic biome.
- Anaquifer, which fills caves with water at different levels, creating underground lakes.
- Alava aquifer, which fills certain caves with lava below Y=0, creating underground lava lakes.
- Lava sea, which fills everywhere below Y=32 with lava inthe Nether.

- A large lake in a flower forest biome.
- A water aquifer on the surface, resembling a lake.
- A water aquifer and a lava aquifer.
- The lava sea in the Nether.

## Removed features
- Water lake, a small body of water that abundantly generated at any altitude in the Overworld.
- Desert Lakes, a variant of thedesertbiome where large lakes generated more frequently.

- An old underground water lake.
- The removed desert lakes biome, featuring many large lakes.

 This disambiguation page lists articles associated with the same title. If an internal link led you here, you may wish to change the link to point directly to the intended article.
