### The Nether
An intersection of four different Nether biomes.
The Nether uses 3 parameters to generate biomes: temperature, humidity and offset. Unlike the Overworld, the Nether specifies biomes with a single point.

The offset parameter is not a noise, instead it is always 0 at any location in a world. This means that the parameter point of a location is always in the temperature-humidity-plane. The closer the offset (of a biome point) is to 0, the closer the point is to the T-H-plane and the greater the advantage it has during biome generation.

| Biomes           | Temperature | Humidity | Offset |
|------------------|-------------|----------|--------|
| Basalt Deltas    | -0.5        | 0        | 0.175  |
| Crimson Forest   | 0.4         | 0        | 0      |
| Nether Wastes    | 0           | 0        | 0      |
| Soul Sand Valley | 0           | -0.5     | 0      |
| Warped Forest    | 0           | 0.5      | 0.375  |

### The End
The End islands contain multiple biomes in Java Edition. In Bedrock Edition, there is always a single biome on all the islands.
In Java Edition, the End uses only one noise parameter: erosion. If the horizontal distance from the chunk origin of a chunk to the world origin is less than 1024, the blocks in the chunk are in The End. Otherwise, the biome is determined by erosion.

| Biome             | Erosion          |
|-------------------|------------------|
| Small End Islands | -1~-0.21875      |
| End Barrens       | -0.21875~-0.0625 |
| End Midlands      | -0.0625~0.25     |
| End Highlands     | 0.25~1           |

In Bedrock Edition, the End has only one biome: The End.

## Terrain
The Overworld after the "noise" step, which generates the base terrain.
For an overview of terrain features, see Terrain features.

For the terrain customization in Java Edition, see Custom noise settings.

Terrain shaping determines which blocks should be solid and which blocks should be filled with air.

### 3D noise
For customization of density functions in Java Edition, see Density function.

If the noise is in two dimensions, it controls only surface height and it is impossible to add terrain above the surface. To add overhangs and 3D shapes, the game uses 3D Perlin noise function that gives an output called density for every single block. A density > 0 means it is filled with solid block, otherwise it is filled with air.

Density is then given a height bias and a base height. Height bias "squeezes" the blocks. Base height is the base of the squeezing process where the density is left unchanged. Changing base height moves the ground up and down.

- In the Overworld, there is a single pair of height bias and base height, meaning the higher the block is, the less density it has and vice versa. Height bias and base height are both configured by a couple of different noises. Notably,amplifiedworlds are generated by tuning height bias to be lower than default, so that terrain stretch in the vertical direction more.
- In the Nether, there are two pairs of base heights that create the thick, solid ceiling and ground, and the hollow space between them.
- In the End, these parameters are configured to squeeze the map into a big island located relatively at the bottom of the dimension.

- The side view of a world using a single noise
- The side view of a world using 3D noise, creating overhangs

### Splines
To give the world some dramatic terrain shapes like cliffs, fjords and plateaus, the game uses three 2D noise maps. These noises are mapped using splines to calculate the height offset and a vertical stretch factor. The same noises are also used in biome generation, which creates a soft link between biome and terrain. For example a mountainous area generates mountainous biome and plains biomes are generally flatter.

The larger the continentalness, the higher the average terrain height. Continentalness is used mainly for differentiating ocean and land.

The erosion parameter affect inland terrain during terrain generation. Erosion is mainly used to create large area of flat ground. The higher the erosion at a location, the lower the terrain height and the flatter the terrain.

The peaks and valleys (PV) value is calculated from weirdness. As the name suggests, it is mainly used for generating better peaks and valleys. The higher the PV value, the higher the terrain. Usually, at places with low continentalness or high erosion, when the PV level is "Valleys", the terrain is low enough to generate rivers. At high terrain, negative weirdness values lead to taller and more jagged and point peaks. When the erosion level is approximately 5, positive weirdness values result in weird inland terrain that is shattered and extremely precipitous and craggy.

- Continentalness creates distinction between land and ocean
- Large area of flat plains is created by high erosion.
- PV creates peaks and valleys like this fjord.

### Noise caves
Main article: Cave § Noise caves
The mechanics of noise cave generation.[4]
Noise caves are part of the base terrain generation and are generated using 3D Perlin noises. They come in the form of cheese caves, spaghetti caves, and noodle caves. Three noise maps, frequency, hollowness, and thickness, are parameters that control this process. Frequency controls the frequency of the cave generation.

- Cheese caves are pocket areas of the underground that come in various sizes. They are generated by taking the white area in a Perlin noise map. Hollowness controls the size of cheese caves.
- Spaghetti caves are long, narrow caves that wind their way through the underground. When generating, the edge of black and white part of noise image becomes air, making it look like long and wide spaghetti. Thickness controls the thickness of spaghetti caves.
- Noodle caves are a thinner and squigglier variant of spaghetti caves. They consist of tunnels usually 1 to 5 blocks in width. Its generating mechanism is similar to that of spaghetti caves. Thickness controls the thickness of noodle caves.

Additionally, noise pillars generate inside big cheese cave chambers. Frequency controls the frequency of the pillar generation while thickness control the thickness of them.

- Inside of a cheese cave.
- Inside of a spaghetti cave.
- Inside of a noodle cave.

