#### More specific features
##### Mentioned in 2009
- In early development, Notch mentioned two more gamemodes, Team Survival Mode and Fortress Mode, which would include the ability to play Capture the Flag.[112]
	- Additionally, difficulty modes were mentioned on of which were: "Walk in the Park" being the easiest, "Easy" which was added, and "Armageddon" being difficult even with 32 people.[113]
- Partially implemented:Cobwebblocks being created byspiders[114]. This functionality appears as an attack inMinecraft Dungeons.
- After denying the addition of penguins, Notch stated that a penguin hat would be a pretty neat Easter egg.[115]

##### Mentioned in 2010
- Animated swingingdoors.[116]
- Partially implemented: Megabeasts were mentioned as a potential addition for late-game challenges along with ill omens followed by "a night of absolute horror". Ideas of ill omens were flickeringtorchesand a big red eye appearing on themoonwhich would look around.[117][118][119][120]Theender dragonwas added in1.0, theBad Omeneffect was added in1.14.
- A realism slider for difficulty.[121]
- Collidingclouds.[122][123]
- Server portals.[124]
- Moon.[125]
- Partially implemented: Dungeon Mode: Same asSurvival mode, except players can't craft or modify the world. Planned to have been used to play missions on pre-made maps.[126]The later-implementedAdventure modefunctions similarly.
- "Clan" mode. Most likely the same as Team Survival mode mentioned in 2009.[126]
- Server-side scripting.[126]
- Land claim flags: planting a flag (possibly costs gold in Survival mode) claims an area of land. No monsters can spawn or die from age in that area, and only selected players can build in that area.[126]
- Smoke block: would be generated by fire, be passable, cast shadows, float upward and disappear after a short time.[126]1.14addedcampfires, which generate smoke particles similar to what was mentioned, but they are not blocks and do not cast shadows.
- Gravity: all blocks except possiblyobsidianwould be affected by gravity. Floating islands would need obsidian blobs to stay afloat.[126]Notch later stated that he disliked the idea.[127]
- More crafting templates: arrows, food, armor, etc.[126](Possibly added inJava Edition 1.14.)
- In-game anti-cheat: make the server check for flying, no-clip and increased speed. Add those options to the client, but only enable if the server says it's okay.[126]
- Partially implemented: Make moss grow on rock (likely means thatmossy cobblestonewould spread tocobblestone)[126]. In 1.17,glow lichenwas introduced which functions similarly to the idea growing on stone in caves and spreading withbone meal.

##### Mentioned in 2011
- The ability to choose what work saves to the level files.[128]
- Scarecrows.[129][130]1.14addedpillager outposts, which can generate a scarecrow-like target structure.
- Storing of achievements and statistics online.[131]
- Custompaintings.[132]
- Hand-drawnsigns.[132]
- Explodingarrows.[133]Partially implemented with the ability to shootfirework rocketsfromcrossbows.

##### Mentioned in 2012
A giant spider in a village.
- Giant spiders.[134]
- Verticalredstone.[135]
- Ability to design village buildings.[136]Partially implemented withstructure blocks.
- Silk Touchyielding doubleslabblocks.[137]
- Ability to pause the game inmultiplayer, but only for ops. Users will then get to chat until the game is back.[138][139]
- Minecartsusable asboats.[140]
- More colors andtexture packcustomizations of maps.[141]
- Flower potsbreaking when hit byarrows.[142]This has been added forchorus floweranddecorated potsinMinecraft Preview.
- Partially implemented:Fireworkshaving effects on mobs, such as scaringwolves.[143]Implemented withelytraboosting and damaging mobs if explosive.
- Maps would have more support for colors and supporttexture packtextures.[144]
- Calamari.[145]

##### Mentioned in 2013
Dinnerbone's dispenser minecart screenshot.
A dispenser minecart.
- Minecartwithdispenser.[146]
	- The image may have just been showcasing the custom tile displays in minecarts which were added in the next snapshot,13w02a.
- Dinnerbone's original demonstration of the.mcmetaformat for resource packs contained a sample properties file for fonts to determine character size and spacing.[147]Despite the game code containing the code to read the files, it never actually uses them leaving character width and spacing to be determined dynamically.
- Enchanted items apply attributes on use.[148]
- Adding more places to display scoreboard scores.[149]
- A better UI for server admins/ops, inspired by the Twitch user moderation menu.[150]
- Better construction analysis.[151]
- Partially implemented: A new system that could alter weapon behavior.[152]
	- This has been partially implemented inJava Edition 15w34awith the implementation of attack speed.
- Easier way to implement terrain changes.[109]
- Portable light (e.g. holding a torch in the hand which provides light).[153]
- A hug animation[154].Emoteshave been implemented inBedrock Edition, including a hug animation available for purchase.
- Blocks ofcharcoal, mentioned as something that would need to be implemented as to not complicate the existence ofblocks of coal.[155]
- Smelting red sand into red glass.[156]

##### Mentioned in 2014
Unimplemented red glass smelting recipe.
Screenshot of the cloud height slider.
- Ryan Holtzoriginally mentioned adding a slider for cloud height,[157]though he later stated the idea was controversial among the team so he scrapped it.[158]
- Improved camera controls.[159]
- Dinnerbone has stated he has an "Ultimate Plan" withendermitesthat might include thedragon egg.[160]
- Rewriting the key bind system.[161]
- Building a custom sound system.[162]
- Sheepshowing their color when shorn, like inBedrock Edition.[163]
- Multithreaded terrain generation rendering.[164]
- Fixes to chunk loading.[165][166]
- JSON support onsigns[167]and possibly implementing a way to "make it work in survival".[168]Searge later said "The plan is to eventually have every text that can be displayed on the screen use the text component system, then using § won't be necessary anymore."[169]
- Anotherrabbitskin.[170][171]
- Using thekiller rabbitkilling mobs for something.[172]
- Mesa temples.[173]
- OAuth.[174]
- Being able to make theworld border's center slowly move.[175]

##### Mentioned in 2015
- Corn.[176]
- In game lore[177]. Implemented in the April Fools' updateJava Edition 20w14∞, where books written by "§kDeepest Lore" would appear in End Ship chests, containing short, obfuscated and unserious "orders".
- Making it so shields are used to block attacks from the side the shield is held on.[178]
- Allowing mobs to have additional random skins, similar to the kind of variation seen inhorses,cats,wolvesandrabbits.[179]
- Partially implemented: Giving/clonethe ability to rotate and mirror structures.[180][181]Structure blocks were later given the ability to rotate structures.
- Minecart improvements after/in 1.10[182]
- Improvements to the GUI. These would allow the glowing effect to be seen on the inventory player model.[183]

