### Terrain features
#### Main island
All players begin their exploration of the End with the main island. Unlike nether portals, entering the end portal instantly teleports the player to the End, giving no time to back out. Upon arrival in the End, the player is placed on a 5×5×1 obsidian platform with 3 layers of air blocks above it, if there are any blocks in a 3 block space above the platform, they are deleted upon a player entering an end portal. The platform can generate on the island, within it, or at a short distance from it, close enough to throw an ender pearl to reach the island. It always generates centered on the coordinates (100, 49, 0) with the player facing west.

Once the player enters the End, the only way back is to die or defeat the ender dragon. The dragon spawns naturally and flies around above ten towers of obsidian arranged in a circle around the central Exit Portal, which fills up at the end of the battle. On top of each tower lies an end crystal, some of which are protected by cages of iron bars. These crystals heal the dragon, but can be destroyed by hitting it (even with projectiles). Destroying the crystal while the dragon is healing damages the dragon.

Once defeated, the dragon goes to the exit portal at (0, 64, 0), rises into the sky and disintegrates, with bright beams of light flashing from its body. It then explodes, drops 12,000 (first dragon) or 500 (all subsequent dragons) experience orbs, activates the exit portal, and generates one end gateway (first 20 dragons only). This gives the player access to the End's outer islands. Atop the exit portal lies four torches and the dragon egg. After killing the dragon, it can be respawned an unlimited number of times by placing four end crystals on the sides of the exit portal.  Respawning the ender dragon regenerates any obsidian pillar blocks previously mined by the player, as well as the torches on the exit portal. However, the dragon egg does not regenerate upon killing a respawned ender dragon.

The End's outer islands are clustered around the main island.
Once the player enters the exit portal, the "end poem" is displayed, therefore "completing" the game. The player then respawns wherever their spawn is set in the Overworld or in the Nether, and may return to the End through the same portal (or a different portal from another stronghold); the End remains in the same state as the player left it. The obsidian platform is regenerated each time a player enters the End, meaning that any blocks or block entities placed in the 5×5×4 space on or above the platform are destroyed and replaced with obsidian and air blocks.

#### Outer islands
The End's outer islands are more diverse than the main island. When a player enters one of the end gateways that generate after killing the dragon, they are instantly teleported over the ~1000 block void to the outer islands. These gateway portals are easiest to enter through the use of ender pearls, due to the one block tall gap between the bedrock blocks, but can also be entered by placing water and swimming through, using a trapdoor or piston to force the player to crawl, or with skilled use of a pair of elytra.

The outer islands vary in size. There are occasional "mini islands" in the gaps between the larger ones, generally with nothing on them (occasionally they generate end gateways that return the player to the obsidian platform). The larger islands can also vary in size but are generally a hundred to several hundred blocks wide. The gaps between these islands are generally short enough that players can travel between them via ender pearls.

These outer islands generate up to the world border. Some are topped with a forest of chorus trees that may be harvested for its chorus fruit, and perhaps chorus flowers, to grow it in the Overworld. The player may find end cities (which may generate ships with them) on these islands, which hold exclusive loot. Elytra and the dragon head can only be found on the end ships.

In Java Edition, due to a bug[1], the outer End islands fail to generate in multiple concentric rings. The first ring ends at ±370,719 on the X and Z axes, cutting off terrain generation in a doughnut shape. It continues empty, but the second ring starts at X/Z=±524,288, then disappears again at X/Z=±642,111 and comes back at X/Z=±741,456. It continues like this all the way until the world border, getting closer and closer. If the world border would be removed, going far enough would lead to world looking slightly like the stripe lands of Bedrock Edition.

