#### Discharging
Every other game tick, sculk blocks and veins discharge excess sculk charges. This discharge can cause the sculk charge to spread across a patch of sculk blocks and grow the patch larger.

Every other game tick, when sculk blocks or veins discharge, they transfer all of their sculk charges to a random adjacent block. The adjacent block must be a sculk block, a sculk vein, or one of the blocks that is sculk_replaceable. If there are no adjacent blocks to discharge to, the sculk charge simply stays where it is and eventually decay.

Each time a sculk block is charged, it discharges again. This causes sculk charges to move like electricity in a daisy chain. Sculk charges from different sculk blocks and veins tend to cluster together if there are enough charges, similar to how water collects in a valley or river. Sculk charges keep moving like this until they run out due to converting blocks, constructing shriekers and sensors, or decaying.

If a sculk charge keeps discharging in the same area without creating new sculk family blocks, it decays.

Every time a sculk block or vein discharges, it a 9% chance to grow a sculk sensor, and a 1% chance to grow a sculk shrieker.

Sculk sensors and sculk shriekers cannot receive sculk charges and are only produced by them.

Sculk sensors and shriekers cannot grow if there are 2 or more sculk sensors and shriekers within a 9×3×9 box, with the bottom center of the box centered on the sculk bloom's origin (or within -4,0,-4 and 4,2,4 in relative coordinates).

Sculk shriekers generated by sculk growth won't summon wardens and shriek more frequently, because they have their can_summon tag set to false.

#### Blooming without spreading
Even though growing new sculk requires experience, sculk blooms still occur for mobs that can not drop experience on death. This is the intended behavior, and a sculk catalyst even blooms when an armor stand is destroyed[3], because the game has armor stands labeled as being living entities.

When a player with no experience dies in range of a sculk catalyst, it still blooms, and no sculk grows. If keep inventory is on, the player retains experience after dying. This prevents the sculk bloom from consuming the experience and growing sculk.[4]

### Light source
Sculk catalysts emit a light level of 6.

## Data values
### ID
Java Edition:

| Name           | Identifier     | Form         | Translation key                |
|----------------|----------------|--------------|--------------------------------|
| Sculk Catalyst | sculk_catalyst | Block & Item | block.minecraft.sculk_catalyst |

| Name         | Identifier     |
|--------------|----------------|
| Block entity | sculk_catalyst |

Bedrock Edition:

| Name           | Identifier     | Numeric ID | Form                       | Item ID[i 1]   | Translation key          |
|----------------|----------------|------------|----------------------------|----------------|--------------------------|
| Sculk Catalyst | sculk_catalyst | 715        | Block & Giveable Item[i 2] | Identical[i 3] | tile.sculk_catalyst.name |


↑ ID of block's direct item form, which is used in savegame files and addons.

↑ Available with /give command.

↑ The block's direct item form has the same id as the block.


| Name         | Savegame ID   |
|--------------|---------------|
| Block entity | SculkCatalyst |

### Block states
See also: Block states

Java Edition:

| Name  | Default value | Allowed values | Description                                                        |
|-------|---------------|----------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------|
| bloom | false         | falsetrue      | Whether the sculk catalyst is actively spreading the sculk or not. |

Bedrock Edition:

| Name  | Default value | Allowed values | Description                                                        |
|-------|---------------|----------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------|
| bloom | 0             | 01             | Whether the sculk catalyst is actively spreading the sculk or not. |



### Block data
A sculk catalyst has a block entity associated with it that holds additional data about the block.

Java Edition:

See also: Block entity format


 Block entity data
Tags common to all block entities
 cursors: List of sculk charge clusters associated with the sculk catalyst.
: A sculk charge cluster. Each cluster is stored within a single sculk block.
 charge: How many sculk charges are being carried in the cluster.
 pos: List of three integers representing the coordinates of the cluster.
 decay_delay: 1 or 0 (true/false) - Not to be confused with update_delay. This controls the decay of the cluster. If this is true, then the cluster was spread from a sculk block or sculk vein, and this cluster can only spread to sculk, sculk veins, and blocks with the  sculk_replaceable tag set to true. If this is false, then all the sculk charges disappear when the cluster discharges to a block that is not in the sculk family.
 update_delay: Delay in game ticks until the cluster begins to discharge (or travel) after being created. Usually starts at 1 game tick when a cluster discharges to a new block.
 facings: If the block to replace is an air or water block, the block is replaced with sculk veins, and the faces where the sculk veins are placed are also stored in their block state. The sculk veins never grow directly on the faces of a sculk block. The same thing is done to any air or water blocks that are adjacent to blocks that are adjacent to this sculk block, if sculk veins can't grow in the blocks adjacent to this sculk block without growing directly on the faces of sculk blocks.

Bedrock Edition:

See Bedrock Edition level format/Block entity format.

