# Java Edition 22w12a
22w12a is the second snapshot for Java Edition 1.19, released on March 24, 2022,[1] which adds boats with chests, the warden, along with the darkness effect and swift sneak enchantment, makes leaves waterloggable, and fixes bugs.

## Contents
- 1 Additions
	- 1.1 Items
	- 1.2 Mobs
	- 1.3 Non-mob entities
	- 1.4 Gameplay
	- 1.5 General
- 2 Changes
	- 2.1 Blocks
	- 2.2 Items
	- 2.3 Mobs
	- 2.4 World generation
	- 2.5 Command format
	- 2.6 General
- 3 Fixes
- 4 Videos
- 5 References

## Additions
### Items
** Spawn Eggs **
- Added warden spawn egg.

### Mobs
** Warden **
- The first fully blind mob.
	- Has a sense of smell. It can detect and pathfind toward the general location of a player or mob through a "smelling" action.
		- Prioritizes smelling the player or mob that it is most suspicious of, rather than the one closest to it.
	- Has a sense of vibration. When sensing movement, it pathfinds toward the source of the movement.
		- It follows and attacks players, mobs, and other entities that make vibrations.
		- When it detects a vibration, the growths on its head rattle and light up, similar to thesculk sensor.
			- If any projectile (e.g.egg,snowball,arrow) lands near it, the warden inspects the location where the projectile landed, due to the projectile creating significant vibrations. This feature can be used in order to cause a distraction.
		- Does not detect players that are sneaking.
	- Can detect players or mobs that have theInvisibilityeffect.
- Becomes more suspicious of a player or mob as it detects its location more through vibrations and/or smelling. When it suspects the target enough, it identifies its exact location, which aggravates it, causing it to pathfind toward the target to attack regardless of outside distractions.
- Spawns when a player activates sculk shriekers three times.
	- It is the only mob that spawns in the deep dark biome.
- "Emerges" from the ground when spawned bysculk shriekers.
	- Digs back into the ground when it doesn't sense any vibration after 60 seconds.
		- Like howname tagsprevent despawning, name tags can also prevent wardens from being able to burrow back to the ground.
		- Wardens will not dig back when they're in water.
- Has 500× 250health points and does 30× 15damage on Normal difficulty, bringing players wearing fullnetheritearmorfrom full health to 7health points.
- Is about 3.5 blocks tall, making it one of the tallest mobs in the game, exceeding theiron golemandendermanin height and width (the same).
	- Wardens have long melee reach, being able to hit the player when on top of a four block pillar, thus making it capable of countering certain cheese tactics, such as pillaring.
- Wardens disable shields when they hit the players with their fists.
- The warden doesn't qualify as a target for the advancement "Monster Hunter" and isn't needed to receive the advancement "Monsters Hunted" due to its role.
- Warden's chest has a glowing core that appears to brighten and dim in tandem with the Darkness effect.
	- The core creates a low throbbing or "heartbeat" sound as it pulses. The sound and animation speed up rapidly as the warden gets more suspicious of or closer to attacking a player or mob.
- Is immune tolavaand can float up lava columns very fast.
- Is immune to knockback and never slows down in water.

### Non-mob entities
** Boat with Chest **
- Function similarly tominecart with chests, but in boats instead, so player can take a journey on the water and carry things.
- Crafted by combining achestwith anyboat.
- Opening its inventory or breaking it will make nearby adultpiglinsangry.
- Breaking it drops itself (as opposed to aminecart with chest, which splits into its components), and all its items.
- Can hold only one entity.

### Gameplay
** Effects **
- Darkness
	- A status effect triggered by thesculk shrieker, causing the player's camera to dim in brightness, thus limiting the vision of players.
	- Lowers the gamma down at an equivalent of “Moody” while having this effect.

** Enchanting **
- Added theSwift Sneakenchantment.
	- Has three levels.
	- Can only be applied onleggings.
	- Allow the player to walk faster while sneaking, up to 75% of normal speed at level III.
	- Currently cannot be obtained in survival.

### General
** Options **
- A new accessibility slider has been added in the options menu called “Darkness Pulsing”.
	- It controls how dark the Darkness effect gets when a Warden orSculk Shriekergives it to the player.

** Particles **
- Added a new particle:shriek.

** Tags **
- Added thechest_boatsitem tag.
	- Contains all types ofboat with chests.
- Added thewarden_events_can_listengame event tag.
	- Contains the contents of the#vibrationsevent tag (exceptflap),sculk_sensor_tendrils_clicking, andshriek.

## Changes
### Blocks
** Leaves **
- Leaves are now waterloggable.
- Mangrove leaves is now compostable.

** Sculk Catalyst **
- Can no longer generatesculk shriekers.

** Sculk Sensor **
- Now always activate when stepped on, even when sneaking.

** Sculk Shrieker **
- Added functionality.
	- Has the ability to "shriek", emitting ring-like/sonic particles.
	- Is activated by asculk sensor,redstonesignal or player's stepping.
		- Sculk shriekerssummonwardensonly if there isn't one within 48 blocks.
	- Gives players the Darkness effect when activated.
	- If activated three times, a warden is summoned from the ground.
		- Player has 4 levels ofwarning_level(0-3), everytime activated, the levels increased by 1, and never decrease.
		- If a player had successfully summoned a warden, only one attempt is required to summon a warden next time.
- Currently does not drop when broken, even when usingsilk touch.

### Items
** Boats **
- Changed item textures of all boats, except mangrove.
	- Now their paddles represent their respective wood color and their inside rims of the boats are darker, to matchBedrock Edition.
		- But the oak boat item texture inJava EditionandBedrock Editionstill have differences.

### Mobs
** Parrots **
- Can now imitatewardens.

### World generation
** Deep Dark **
- Now less flooded than surrounding areas.

### Command format
** /locatebiome **
- Now searches in 3D properly, which means it will locate cave biomes correctly.
- Now returns all three coordinates in the output.

### General
** Debug Keys **
- Removed debug hotkey cycling render distance (F3+F).

** Particles **
- The parameters to thevibrationparticle have changed: instead of specifying the start position as an extra parameter, the regular source of the particle is now used.

** Shaders **
- There are now shader files for translucent entity rendering.

** Tags **
- Mangrove boat and the#chest_boatsitem tag are now part of the#boatsitem tag.
- Mangrove leaves is now part of the#mineable/hoeblock tag.

