# Tutorials/Exploring caves
Caves or caverns are naturally-formed cavities in the Overworld and less prominently, the Nether. Most caves have tunnels branching off as catacombs and winding in all sorts of directions. They are often very deep and can go from the surface all the way to bedrock. Caves are not ravines but will often lead into them.  Because they mostly lack illumination, they will often have groups of hostile mobs like skeletons, zombies, spiders and etc.

One should never go into a cavern without a good supply of any lighting and weapons. Leave all valuables back in a safe place on the surface. However, if these valuables are from the cavern itself, make sure to have a chest to put them in.

Caves are huge and can have numerous intersecting tunnels, making them easy to get lost in. Getting lost in a cavern can be very dangerous, since getting lost in a cavern for too long may easily drain your hunger, saturation, weapon and armor durability, leaving you hungry and vulnerable to attacks, both of which could cause your death.

## Contents
- 1 Finding caverns
- 2 Recommended materials
- 3 Exploring tips
	- 3.1 Navigation
	- 3.2 Cave survival
	- 3.3 Other tips
	- 3.4 Exiting

## Finding caverns
There are many ways to find caves.

** Exploring surface **
By exploring the surface of the map, there is a good chance that an exposed cave will be found. Surface aquifers may indicate the location of a potentially-expansive cave system, and azalea trees indicate a lush cave below.
** Digging **
Digging around might uncover caves, but it is not easy as the map is (very) large. Choosing a random location and digging a tunnel straight down will intersect a cave system roughly 40% the time, but is not recommended since mining straight down may cause the player to fall inlava, a deep underground cave, or a cave system full ofmobs. A diagonal tunnel (downward staircase) takes 3 times as long to dig, but is much safer and can be traversed both ways. Make sure to look out for dripping water or lava above you as it may hint at an aquifer or a lava lake.
** Listening **
By following the source ofambience, or the sound ofmobscoming from underground, there is a great chance to find a cave. It's also useful to follow sound of water and lava.
** Piston **
Dig down, place apistonand power it. Since pistons don't extend if there are 13+ blocks ahead of them, you can use pistons to find caves.
** The Nether **
Traveling tothe Nether, going down roughly 20 to 30 blocks, along by at least 16 blocks, and creating a newportalwill likely cause the newOverworldportal to spawn in a cave since a portal is spawned in the nearest suitable space for the portal.
** Cartograph **
Use3rd party software(such ascartograph) to make maps of caves. This can easily lead the player todungeonsor caves.
## Recommended materials
These are some of the recommended items the player should bring with themselves into caves.

- Weapons: Because of a cave's low light level, mobs such as zombies, spiders, skeletons, creepers, and possibly other aggressive mobs will spawn on the dark areas of the cave, making exploration dangerous. It is recommended the player bring weapons such as swords, axes, or bows to fight off said mobs.

- Armor: As said before, lots of mobs spawn in caverns because of the low light level. Iron or higher tier armor may be needed when exploring caves, so as to give the player better protection against mobs. Exploring without armor is very dangerous, as mobs can kill an unarmored player in just a few hits. Armor can also beenchantedto have Fire Protection (for lava and burning), Projectile Protection (for skeleton's arrows), Feather Falling (for falling damage), etc.

- Tools: Caves house a lot of ores and other types of rock. Due to this, it's always recommended to bring a pickaxe in order to get started with anything. A shovel is also helpful for digging gravel and dirt more quickly. Axes, along with their combat utility, are also useful for quickly tearing down mineshafts for fuel. Hoes and shears may also be useful for harvesting plants such asmoss blocksandglow lichen.
	- Offhand: ashieldorbowfor combat, alternatively atorchor somefood.

- Lighting: Caves can be and will be very dark, so be sure to bring along any source of illumination.  Rather than bringing many stacks of torches, bring wood and coal to craft them as needed. Stacks of sticks and coal would take twice as much inventory space if crafted into torches.
	- The deepslate layer is clean of any coal ore, so you'll have less reliable sources of light. You may have to consider working with the dimmer light levels of sources like glow lichen, redstone torches, and redstone ore. Producing charcoal is another thing to keep in mind.
	- Lush caves have glow berries, giving lighting and food at the same time, meaning you will have to bring a lot less torches. Note, however, that if you pick them for food, the light goes out, so you may want to put a torch there.

- Food: Cavern exploration may take quite a long time, draining your hunger. Also with mobs spawning, and the fact that you can get lost may further help drain your hunger. Bring fillingfoodsuch as cooked porkchop and cooked salmon if possible. Cakes can restore a lot of hunger, but will not fill hunger saturation and must be placed before eating.
	- Optionally, anygolden food, for instance, agolden apple, can give youstatus effectsthat can aid your survival, like regeneration and absorption.
	- Optionally, afishing rod, for fishing. Water can be found in caves, so it may not be much of a bother.  However, fishing underground can be slow (no open-sky or rain bonuses), so it may take a while to catch a fish, especially a fish thatis edible.
	- Optionally, abucket of milkcan help remove any status effects inflicted on you, especiallycave spiderpoison andwitches.
	- If the player runs out of food, and gets lost, they can userotten fleshfrom zombies as an alternative, or pick offglow berries.
		- Consuming rotten flesh may result in food poisoning through the form of thehungereffect.

- Log: Bringing in a stack of log will let players craft a variety of useful blocks in the field, without having to carry large numbers of all of them:  Torches are the most usual, but players can also make a crafting table and then make such blocks as chests, ladders, fences and gates.  Don't craft logs into planks or sticks until you need to; large quantities of either will take up more inventory slots than the original logs.
	- If you find yourself running out of logs, you can stock up by chopping off the log supports of mineshafts, or growingazalea trees.

- Others: other items and blocks can help players to aid survival and reach any exploration goals, like abedfor instance.

(Water) buckets: Empty buckets stack (while water or lava buckets don't), but the player will want to keep at least one bucket already filled with water. This is useful for turning lava into obsidian, allowing it to be safely walked on or mined. Note that there can still be lava below it though, and the water should keep flowing. This also useful for extinguishing themselves when on fire. Empty buckets can let the player move water or lava springs out of their way, or collect more water or lava for their own purposes. Water buckets can also function as a ladder, and are needed to capture mobs like the tropical fish and axolotl. Lava buckets are also useful for fighting mobs, especally  for slimes.

- Blocks: A few stacks of cheap blocks, for instance, dirt or cobblestone,sand,gravel, can help reach certain places of the caves.

- Compass: Sometimes when the player get completely lost, they can just simply dig up to the surface and use a compass to guide them home. It is only helpful if their house is near the world spawn or if the player has used the compass on alodestonenear their base.

## Exploring tips
### Navigation
Bring a compass.

It is surprisingly easy to get lost in caverns. Below are a number of methods the player can implement while exploring to prevent this, especially trail markers. The navigation tutorial has much more information about markers and other navigation methods. (Summary: Torches, wool, signs, blocks (which can be placed in "arrows", and especially jack o'lanterns.)

One fairly easy marker method is the "torch on the right" rule.  While exploring a cave simply place torches on the right side of the wall as players go deeper in. This way, no matter how complicated and even intertwined the caves get, you can always find their way back because if the torch is on the left of a cave wall, that means they are heading towards the exit. Conversely, if it's on the right, it means they are heading deeper in.

Another tip is to use markings such as colored wool, or other blocks, to find where the player came from. The player can also put signs for further clarification, pointing to the direction in which they came from. Optionally, they can make an arrow shape with the blocks themselves.

Also, a player can place magenta glazed terracotta to place on the wall or floor as it has an arrow pattern on it. This can help show which way is the exit.

While it will not help the player in navigating the cave itself, it may be wise to bring a map with them into a large cave, should the player get lost and need to dig the way out. Note that most caves occupy less area horizontally than they might seem, but interconnected caves and mineshafts can sprawl over huge distances. The player might well map some new surface as the player is exploring underground, but the cave itself will not be mapped.

### Cave survival
Caves can be very dangerous: the light level is dark enough for monsters to spawn; gravel is very common, which could suffocate the player; and the player will see lava often, especially in deeper caves, which can kill the player very quickly and burn dropped items. Here are some tips to help with surviving in caves:

- Remember to always be aware of your surroundings in caves, especially upwards. One of the most common sources of mobs within previously explored caves is unnoticed openings in the ceiling or walls. If the player is in a ravine, watch out for monsters falling off of high ledges.
- A good mining practice is to fully explore and light a cave system before beginning to mine out any resources. It is extremely dangerous to stop and mine in a dark cave, where you can lose your loot if killed. Check for "broken bridges" such as gravel masses or 2-block drops. If monsters can come out of them, you may want to change that; once safety is verified, you can save the blocked-off areas for later.
- As part of exploration, "clean up" the area, taking off leftover blocks, filling small pits, and generally smoothing things out. In mineshafts, you can clear out most of the fence-and-plank "supports" as players "claim" an area.  This will use a lot of axes, but it will improve both visibility and mobility, cutting down on unpleasant surprises. Notably, those fences provide better cover forcreepersthan they do for the player. This will also make it easier to tell where you are.
- Water coming down from above is especially troublesome, as it can carry monsters down from a whole chain of darkened caverns.
	- It's a good idea to swim upwards and light the path of the flow.
	- Most water flows can be captured at the source with abucket; if that doesn't work out, they can be contained with fences or blocks. Either way, be aware of areas where the water flowformerlyblocked monsters. Some flows may be useful to keep for travel — the player can swim up or down waterfalls to traverse high cliffs, or land in water to avoid fall damage.  With a little care, you can swim along the outside of the waterfall, which lets the player keep breathing normally.
	- Some water flows from cave ceilings come from openings in the seafloor.  With care (and perhaps adooror someladders), you can swim up these and mark the entrance with ajack-o-lantern, which will generally be visible from the sea surface.  Such openings are also a quick way to get back to the surface if you've gotten lost. With a bit more effort, players can seal the opening altogether, perhaps leaving a shaft with ladders for their own use. (Ladders and signs can be used to block water.)
- Lavaflows and pools can also block the passage. Like water, lava flows can be bucketed if you can reach the source, or contained with blocks otherwise. Lava pools can be flooded with water to convert them toobsidian. Again, be aware of areas where monsterswereblocked by the lava. Also, remember to re-light the area after removing that brightly glowing lava.
- When fighting mobs, be careful of lava as mobs could knock you into it or you might walk into lava by accident and lose your items.
- Using thevolume slidersto your advantage, you can hear creepers relatively easily. By turning the "Hostile Creatures" volume slider to maximum, and setting the "Players" volume to very low, you can hear the footsteps of creepers very easily. Because creepers have the same footstep sounds as the player, by turning down the player's footstep sound, you can be sure that whenever you hear player-like footstep sounds, what you hear is a creeper.

### Other tips
Here are some general miscellaneous tips that can help you when exploring caverns:

- To reach ores or tunnels high on the ceiling, trypillar jumpingto gain altitude or useladdersby placing new ones as the player climb. Players can also build bridges across ravines and pits. Scaffolding can also be used for this.
- If the player sees a huge underground ravine and wants to see what's inside of it, and they want a way to get back up but don't want to take the time to mine or place blocks, pour water on the edge and it will flow down, allowing for a safe way to get down and up. Note that players must have a water bucket with them, or if they have an empty bucket with them, they will likely be able to find a water source to get water from.

### Exiting
When finished exploring a cave, it is best to try and find the way back to the surface via the way they have came, rather than by digging upwards. However, if need be, they can make their own exit — just dig upwards to the surface in a staircase fashion, watching for drips. Players can also dig directly upwards, however, be careful when doing so, as gravel could fall on you and cause suffocation. If this happens, you can use a shovel to quickly dig your way out. You should also keep an eye out for water droplets or lava droplets falling from the block above.

When digging a staircase out of a cave, it can be useful to check your map to figure out where you will, or want to, emerge. Coming out into the seabed can be tricky, especially if your torches get washed away. Put your torches 3 blocks up instead of 2 or 1 to avoid "wash-outs" (specifically: high enough that the air 1 block above the next higher stair isn't beside the torch).

Like mentioned previously, if you found a water flow that leads up to the ocean surface, you can use this to exit the cave. One can create easy access from the cave to the ocean surface by making a pillar of sugar cane. This will provide a fast, breathable path in both directions.  This method can be used for both entering and exiting caves.  

| Introductory      |                                                                                                                                                                           |
|-------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Basics            | Menu screen<br/>Game terms<br/>                                                                                                                                           |
| Newcomer survival | The first day/beginner's guide<br/>The second day<br/>The third day<br/>Hunger management<br/>Things not to do<br/>Simple tips and tricks<br/>Your first ten minutes<br/> |
| Shelters          | Best biomes for homes<br/>Best building materials<br/>Building and construction<br/>Navigation<br/>Shelters<br/>Shelter types<br/>                                        |

| General                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|----------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| General                    | Achievement guide<br/>Advancement guide<br/>Best enchantments guide<br/>Breaking a fall<br/>Breaking bedrock<br/>Combat<br/>Complete main adventure<br/>Creating a village<br/>Downgrading<br/>Dual wielding<br/>End survival<br/>Exploring caverns<br/>Gathering resources on peaceful difficulty<br/>Getting food quickly<br/>Headless pistons<br/>Hitboxes<br/>Horses<br/>Indestructible end crystals<br/>Mapping<br/>Measuring distance<br/>Minecraft in education<br/>Mining Diamonds Fossils Ancient Debris<br/>Diamonds<br/>Fossils<br/>Ancient Debris<br/>Nether hub<br/>Nether portals<br/>Nether survival<br/>Organization<br/>Pillar jumping<br/>Playing with a controller<br/>PvP PvP bases<br/>PvP bases<br/>Spawn-proofing<br/>Summoning jockeys<br/>The Void<br/>Time-saving tips<br/>Thunderstorm survival<br/>Units of measure<br/>Village mechanics Trading<br/>Trading<br/>X-ray glitches<br/> |
| Enchanting<br/>andsmelting | Enchanting mechanics<br/>Anvil mechanics<br/>Automatic smelting<br/>Manual smelting<br/>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |

| Challenges                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
|---------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| General                   | Acquiring a conduit<br/>Curing a zombie villager<br/>Defeating temples<br/>Defeating a village raid<br/>Defeating a Nether fortress<br/>Defeating a bastion remnant<br/>Defeating a monster room<br/>Defeating a pillager outpost<br/>Defeating a woodland mansion<br/>Defeating a monument<br/>Defeating an End city<br/>Defeating the Ender dragon<br/>Defeating the Wither<br/>Exploring an ancient city<br/>Obtaining every music disc<br/> |
| Non-standard<br/>survival | Adventure survival<br/>Half hearted hardcore<br/>Hardcore mode<br/>Surviving in a single area indefinitely<br/>Infinite desert survival<br/>Island survival<br/>Manhunt<br/>Mob switch<br/>Nomadic experience<br/>Skywars survival<br/>Superflat survival<br/>Flat survival<br/>Ultra hardcore survival<br/>                                                                                                                                    |
| Challenge maps            | Beating a challenge map<br/>Creating a challenge map<br/>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |

| Constructions |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
|---------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Constructions | Adding beauty to constructions<br/>Airlock<br/>Architectural terms<br/>Building a cruise ship<br/>Building a metropolis<br/>Building a rollercoaster<br/>Building safe homes<br/>Building water features<br/>Color palette<br/>Creating shapes<br/>Defense<br/>Desert shelter<br/>Elevators<br/>Endless circling pool<br/>Furniture<br/>Glazed terracotta patterns<br/>Making nice floors<br/>Pixel art<br/>Ranches<br/>Roof types Curved roofs Roof construction guidelines Roof decorations<br/>Curved roofs<br/>Roof construction guidelines<br/>Roof decorations<br/>Secret door<br/>Settlement guide<br/>Underwater home<br/>Walls and buttresses<br/>Water gate<br/>Water-powered boat transportation<br/> |
| Blockbreaking | Blast chamber<br/>Igniting TNT underwater<br/>Wither cage<br/>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |

| Farming        |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
|----------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Blocksanditems | Amethyst<br/>Armor<br/>Azalea<br/>Bamboo<br/>Basalt<br/>Bedrock<br/>Blaze rod<br/>Bone meal<br/>Cactus<br/>Chorus fruit<br/>Clay and mud<br/>Cobblestone<br/>Cocoa bean<br/>Copper<br/>Crops (Beetroot, Carrot, Potato, Wheat)<br/>Dirt<br/>Dragon's Breath<br/>Dripstone<br/>Egg<br/>Fern<br/>Fish<br/>Flower<br/>Froglight<br/>Glow berries<br/>Glow ink sac<br/>Glow lichen<br/>Goat horn<br/>Gold<br/>Hanging roots<br/>Honey<br/>Ice<br/>Iron<br/>Kelp<br/>Lava<br/>Meat<br/>Moss block<br/>Mushroom<br/>Music disc<br/>Nautilus shell<br/>Nether growth<br/>Nether vine<br/>Nether wart<br/>Obsidian<br/>Powder snow<br/>Pumpkin, Melon<br/>Rooted dirt<br/>Sculk growths<br/>Scute<br/>Seagrass<br/>Sea pickle<br/>Snow<br/>Soul soil<br/>Sugar cane<br/>Sweet berries<br/>Tree<br/>Trident<br/>Vine<br/>Villager trading hall<br/>Wither rose<br/>Wool<br/>Duplication<br/> |
| Mobs           | Mob farming<br/>Mob grinding<br/>Monster spawner traps<br/>Allay<br/>Animals<br/>Axolotl<br/>Blaze<br/>Cat<br/>Cave spider<br/>Creeper<br/>Drowned<br/>Ender dragon<br/>Enderman<br/>Frog<br/>Goat<br/>Guardian<br/>Hoglin<br/>Iron golem<br/>Magma cube<br/>Phantom<br/>Piglin bartering farm<br/>Raid<br/>Shulker<br/>Slime<br/>Squid<br/>Turtle<br/>Villager<br/>Wandering trader<br/>Warden<br/>Witch<br/>Wither<br/>Wither skeleton<br/>Zombie<br/>Zombie villager<br/>Zombified piglin<br/>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |

| Mechanisms            |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
|-----------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Basicredstone         | Automatic respawn anchor recharger<br/>Basic logic gates<br/>Combination locks<br/>Command block<br/>Flying machines<br/>Hopper<br/>Item sorting<br/>Item transportation<br/>Mechanisms<br/>Observer stabilizer<br/>Randomizers<br/>Redstone music<br/>Redstone tips<br/>Rube Goldberg machine<br/>Shulker box storage<br/>Villager trading hall*Water tram<br/> |
| Detectors             | Block update detector<br/>Comparator update detector<br/>Daylight detector<br/>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| Minecarts             | Train station<br/>Minecarts Storage Storage system<br/>Storage<br/>Storage system<br/>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| Traps                 | Snow golems<br/>TNT cannons<br/>Trapdoor uses<br/>Trap design<br/>Traps<br/>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| Pistons               | Piston uses<br/>Piston circuits<br/>Quasi-connectivity<br/>Zero-ticking<br/>Instant repeaters<br/>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| Advanced<br/>redstone | Advanced redstone circuits<br/>Arithmetic logic<br/>Calculator<br/>Command stats<br/>Hourly clock<br/>Morse code<br/>Printer<br/>Redstone computers<br/>Redstone telegraph<br/>                                                                                                                                                                                  |

| Servers      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
|--------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| General      | Playing on servers<br/>Multiplayer Survival<br/>Spawn jail<br/>Griefing prevention<br/>Joining a LAN world with alternate accounts<br/>                                                                                                                              |
| Server setup | Setting up a server<br/>Server startup script<br/>FreeBSD startup script<br/>OpenBSD startup script<br/>Ubuntu startup script<br/>Setting up a Hamachi server<br/>Setting up a Minecraft Forge server<br/>Setting up a Spigot server<br/>Ramdisk enabled server<br/> |

| Technical                   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
|-----------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Technical                   | Improving frame rate<br/>Minecraft help FAQ (IRC channel)<br/>Running the data generator<br/>Update Java<br/>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| Maps                        | Custom maps<br/>Map downloads<br/>Command NBT tags<br/>Falling blocks<br/>Updating old terrain using MCEdit<br/>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| Resource packs              | Creating a resource pack<br/>Loading a resource pack<br/>Sound directory<br/>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| Data packs                  | Creating a data pack<br/>Installing a data pack<br/>Custom world generation<br/>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| Creating<br/>Minecraftmedia | Creating videos<br/>Livestreaming<br/>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| Game installation           | Installing snapshots<br/>Installing Minecraft Preview and beta versions<br/>How to get a crash report<br/>Installing Forge mods<br/>Custom Minecraft directory<br/>Playing and saving Minecraft on a thumb drive<br/>Playing and saving Minecraft on a thumb drive with the old launcher<br/>Recover corrupted saved world data<br/>Run Minecraft through Google Drive<br/>Save game data to Dropbox (world data only)<br/>Saved data Dropbox guide<br/> |

| Outdated |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|----------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Outdated | Building micro shelters<br/>Custom texture packs<br/>Door-based iron golem farming<br/>End of light mob farms<br/>Far Lands<br/>How to get a crash report<br/>Installing mods<br/>Man-made lake<br/>Managing slimes in superflat mode<br/>Minecart booster<br/>Potion farming<br/>Repeater reboot system<br/>Survival with no enabled data packs<br/>Update LWJGL<br/>Update Minecraft<br/>Village chaining<br/>Water ladder<br/> |

