# Tutorials/Zombified Piglin farming
Zombified piglin farming is a method of obtaining gold nuggets and rotten flesh renewably by using spawn platforms or nether portals to spawn zombified piglins and moving them to a killing zone. The rotten flesh and gold nuggets can be traded to cleric villagers in large amounts to gain emeralds easily.

## Contents
- 1 Nether
	- 1.1 Simple farm 1
	- 1.2 Farm with cactus
	- 1.3 ianxofour's gold farm
	- 1.4 Ilmango's design
	- 1.5 Gnembon's gold farm
	- 1.6 Rays Works gold farm 1
	- 1.7 Rays Works gold farm 2
	- 1.8 Dashpum's gold farm
- 2 Overworld - Java version
	- 2.1 Channeling trident
	- 2.2 Glotz' gold farm
- 3 Overworld - Bedrock version
- 4 Item filtering

## Nether
To construct a farm in the Nether, one can build platforms for zombified piglins to spawn on, with trapdoors on the edge, and place slabs on the floors of all surrounding areas (or just fill them in), so zombified piglins spawn only on those platforms.

### Simple farm 1
The simplest zombified piglin farm is to dig a 3×3×1 trench and make a layer of dirt leaving a 1 block space. Shoot zombified piglins and swipe at them with a sword on their legs after they jumped into the trench. Turn on subtitles, so you can hear when you can come out. To get maximum spawn rates, slab off the blocks in a 128 block diameter. It is done! You can also use magma blocks, which only zombified piglins can spawn on (if you are on 1.16).

Put hoppers connected to a large chest to collect the loot more easily rather than attaching a door to the trench since more zombified piglins might jump in and attack.

### Farm with cactus
Another strategy is to place cactus in the nether, and then stand on a block on top of it. Shoot ranged weapons at zombified piglins to anger them, and they converge on the cactus, which helps to kill them.

### 
This farm is fairly easy to build, though it requires some digging so a Diamond Pickaxe enchanted with Efficiency II or up is recommended. The farm's optimal location is in a nether wastes biome below the nether roof. The zombified piglins are attracted to the turtle eggs hidden behind the portal and attempt to crack them, only for them to be teleported to the overworld. In the overworld, 2 portals are built high up in the air, one where the zombified piglins came from and one where the killing chamber is located. The zombified piglins gradually push each other to go to the second portal and go to the killing chamber, making it an easy kill for the player. The production rates are good, though the only problem for this farm is when another player is in the overworld, the piglins despawn and the second issue is it has no dedicated storage, meaning players can either make a primitive one or an automatic sorter.

### 
Ilmango's design consists of 3 circular shaped platforms made from magma blocks. The donut-shaped platforms start at y= 247, then the 2nd and 3rd layers start at 250 and 253 respectively. At y= 256, build a circular glass platform to prevent ghasts from spawning. Also, the farm had satellite piglins stationed around the farm, so that when new piglins spawn, they instantly get angry at the player. The killing method is fairly simple but expensive. The piglins are killed using entity cramming, and because they're angry at you, they also drop XP. There are around 4 holes the piglins can fall on, and each hole contains 24 minecarts, for a total of 96 minecarts (requires around 480 iron to make). The average gold block rate for the farm is 130 blocks per hour, and can get you from level 0 to level 130+ in around 30 minutes.

### 
Gnembon's gold farm consists of 19 small circular shaped platforms. How it works is that piglins spawn and attempt to crush the turtle eggs, but instead fall to the killing chamber, where they are to be killed. The killing chamber itself has 2 modes, automatic and manual. In the automatic method, the piglins are killed with fall damage, which doesn't drop XP and it makes around 130 gold blocks per hour. The manual method meanwhile, gives XP and can get you to around level 130+ in 30 minutes. Aside XP, it also produces around 600 gold blocks per hour with a Looting III sword, making it one of the most powerful gold farms out there. The only issues with it are: its complicated structure especially the redstone system and it also requires some spawnproofing below the bedrock, which might take some time.

### Rays Works gold farm 1
In this design, there are 2 rectangle shaped platforms, with a slab roof on top to prevent ghasts from spawning. The AFK centre is connected by a path of slabs and the piglins are killed through entity cramming with minecarts. Unlike Ilmango's design, only one hole is present and is also extremely efficient, and you can reach Level 130+ in one hour. Also like Ilmango's design, there's one satellite pigman to order new piglins to attack the player, although only one is present.

A slightly modified version is designed by Namiature. The difference is instead of entity cramming, the piglins fall into a 3×2 area, with the players sweeping on the piglins with a Looting III sword to multiply its efficiency. Link is here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OkUmVmCOfTI&t=466s.

### Rays Works gold farm 2
Rays Works would later make another design consisting of only one layer. The zombified piglins are attracted to the middle of the spawning platforms by a turtle egg and either an iron golem or zoglin and are killed using fall damage (using a zoglin is more efficient as it doesn't kill, whereas an iron golem sometimes kills before they fall). The farm also drops XP as the zombified piglins are made angry by the iron golem/zoglin before they die. The farm is pretty fast in terms of XP, getting you to approximately level 80 in 15 minutes. Link is here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5iT-D3KNuvE

### 
This gold farm is one of the most powerful gold farms out there, able to make 1600 gold blocks per hour. The farm consists of 34 circular-shaped platforms. In the middle of these platforms, there are 4 portals and an egg hidden in the middle to attract the piglins. They get teleported to the overworld and float to another portal up in the sky using bubble elevators. The glass pillars are around 140 blocks long and it takes around 50 seconds for the zombified piglins to enter the second portal, which is enough time for them to enter another portal. The second portal leads to the killing chamber, which by the way had boats to have an unlimited mob cap of mobs. Just like the other designs, the spawning platforms had a glass roof to stop ghasts from spawning. Other bonus thing that are recommended although not necesarry is a beacon that has strength, regeneration and resistance effects. Strength speeds up the killing process, allowing for more mobs to spawn. Both Regeneration and Resistance are needed for long AFK sessions to prevent you from dying from starvation. In 24 hours, it can get you from level 0 to level 862.

## Overworld - Java version
For Bedrock specific farms see the next chapter below.

To build a farm in the Overworld, one can build a lot of large nether portals, interlocked to save obsidian, and put signs or open trapdoors on the edges of the bottom obsidian blocks, so that zombified piglins (ZPs) walk off. From here, one can use water to collect them into a fall or suffocation trap.  Snow golems can be an alternative for pushing them around, or at least getting them moving.

One fundamental problem with Overworld gold farms is that it is occasionally possible for angered ZPs to return to the Nether through a portal, and perhaps anger others while there. Without proper precautions, you may be ambushed by one or more angry ZPs when they return to the Nether though a nearby portal. Make sure that all your farm portals lead into a containment area where the ZPs are isolated.  This area should have enough room for any mobs there to get away from the portal for their 15 second cooldown, so that they can then go back to the Overworld.  (Also include a fence-gate exit, just in case you stumble in yourself!) Similarly, one must be careful not to use a portal in the Nether, which takes them into the farm for the same reason.  Returnees can be minimized by use of turtle eggs to lure zombified piglins out of the portals. This ensures that they move and fall even without players nearby.

Since the availability of larger portals, it is no longer necessary to make a prism of portals as large portals can do as well. However, the same practice can still be used to make a hyper-efficient farm by building portals in concentric rings (one open to each cardinal direction) from a small inner ring (usually 5×5, to have a single center block) out to the maximum of 23×23.  Note that even the inner ring can be 23 blocks tall (more portal blocks mean more spawns). A ring of size n and height h takes 8(n-1) +4(h-2) = 8n+4h-16 obsidian, with 4(n-3) =4n-12 trapdoors (3n-9 logs) needed to line the inside.  If all the portals are to be 23-tall, the obsidian cost can be simplified to 8n+76.  

- The extreme here is to put the nether portals directly adjacent, with a 5×23×5 square of portals surrounded by a 7×23×7 square, and so on out to a 23×23×23 cube (the tops and bottoms merge into a solid ceiling and floor, with the portal sides forming diagonals).  This can culminate with 10,080 portal blocks, using 1,800 obsidian for a maximum space efficiency of 82.8%.  Walling off the outer side of the largest portals and placing trapdoors on the edge of the smallest inner portals allows ZPs to spawn and wander into the drop or push each other into it. The turtle eggs become important here, as the ZPs from outer portals need to move all the way to the center. Contrary to intuition, they can't actually go to the Nether:  They have the same 15 second cooldown as if they had actually come through the portal, so they can't go through until they have gotten away from that solid mass of portal blocks for 15 seconds.  And when they do reach the middle, they should be going down that 3×3 shaft, which can easily be narrowed to 1×1. (Of course, make sure of the Nether containment area anyway, just to be safe!)
- A slightly less expensive scheme is to alternate portals with empty rings, with the inside bottoms of each portal lined with open trapdoors.  That is, the 5×5 portal is surrounded by a 9×9 portal, then 13×13, and so on, all of them up to 23 blocks high.  This way, ZPs fall much more quickly, and a large water pan can collect them to a central point.
	- The build can be done in stages, according to resources:
		- 5×23×5: 40+92-16=116 obsidian, 6 logs
		- 9×23×9: 72+92-16= 148 obsidian, 18 logs
		- 13×23×13: 180 obsidian, 30 logs
		- 17×23×17: 212 obsidian, 42 logs
		- 21×17×21: 244 obsidian, 54 logs
		- total:  900 obsidian (14 stacks and change), 150 logs.
		- If you still want more, you can ditch the trapdoors and upgrade it in place to the "solid" version above.
	- The simplest collector is a 27×27 water pan, with two levels..  You need 676 blocks and/or slabs (most of them can be slabs) plus 104 for each perimeter block (each layer in the outer wall), not counting any doorways or decorations you may add.
		- Start with a classic 9×9 pan surrounding the 1×1 drop chute. Move up a level to surround it with the rest of the large pan -- slabs or blocks suffice for most of this, but at the inner/outer border you'll want real blocks, so you can place water on them.
		- The outermost ring of the pan should be a 25×25 square of walls or fences on the same level as the pan bottom -- that is, you'd have a half-step up from the outer pan to the fences.  Iron bars or glass also work, without the half-step.
		- Surround this with the 27×27 outer wall.
		- Now the water sources:
			- As usual, the inner pan gets a water source at each corner, which should send the flow in to surround the hole.
			- For the outer pan, water sources go every other block on top of the fences (place them against the outer wall), butnotin a complete ring.  First place the sources every other space along two opposite edges (north/south or east/west); the flow runs exactly to the edge of the inner pan, straight across the entire outer pan.  For theothertwo edges, place 5 sources on each side, covering that dry middle third.  (Still every other space; one at the midpoint, and two on each side.)  This sends the water flow to the other edges of the inner pan.  Warning: If you do try to finish the ring of water sources, you getnewwater sources forming from the corners, and your nice neat collector turns into a sheet of sources that floods over the inner pan.

Regardless, the mobs gather to a central point, generally a 1×1 dropshaft.  At the full scale of this farm, a complex grinder is unecessary:  The farm can produce enough spawns that simply forcing them all into a single space starts to kill them through crowding ("suffocation"). They can be dropped onto a bottom-slab exposing their feet to you, with a hopper beneath that which can go to an item sorter.  This setup has three main modes of operation:

- The crowding damage lets the farm run unattended as long as a player is close enough to keep the mobs from despawning, producing a stream of gold nuggets and rotten flesh.
- Alternatively, you can take your Looting III sword and kill the ZPs manually, for about three times the gold and some grindstone experience.
- Or, the two can be combined:  Wield the Looting sword, but don't use it (much).  Let the ZPs accumulate in the catcher, but occasionally punch one of them to aggro the group, then immediately go back to the Looting sword. Once the crushing damage sets in, their deaths are considered your kills, yielding experience and the more generous gold drops. The catch here is that you need to stay mostly in front of the ZPs, to maintain the aggro -- if you move out of line-of-sight, their forgiveness timer starts ticking and they eventually calm down.

This farm rewards at least a minimal item sorter setup, if only to divert the rotten flesh away from more valuable stuff.  After that, separating out nuggets leaves the occasional gold ingots, and unstackable golden swords (and occasional armor).  For the rotten flesh, it's likely worth setting up some system to automatically destroy overflow from the system.  (Bringing in a cleric villager is also an option.)  For gold nuggets, you'll just need to regularly check the chest, and craft the take into more compact ingots or blocks.  Swords can be sent to a blast furnace by way of a double-chest; every so often check the chest and  hoppers for enchanted swords you can feed to the grindstone (and then put back to be smelted).  When enough swords have accumulated, drop some fuel in the blast furnace to clear out the chest.

### Channeling trident

A different way to spawn zombified piglins is to have a pig struck by lightning, meaning a trident enchanted with Channeling can be used in combination with pig breeders for an Overworld gold farm that requires no obsidian such as the design in this video:  Note that this method yields no swords.



### 
This farm is arguably the most powerful one in Minecraft Java. It consists of 24 portals stacked together, with both zombified and normal piglins instantly spawning on the portals. Then they're going to get teleported to the overworld (except the piglins, as they're gonna get teleported back to the nether). Once in the overworld, they are attracted to the turtle egg in front of the portal and fall to the killing chamber. In the chamber, there's an armor stand on which the player can hit to sweep the piglins and kill them. The rates of the farm is 44,000 gold ingots per hour or 4,444 gold blocks per hour, significantly more powerful than Dashpum's gold farm. Due to the sheer amount of loot you can acquire, a huge complex storage system is needed to be constructed, coupled with shulker loaders. A beacon is also recommended for long AFK sessions to avoid starving to death.  A crafting system is also recommended to quick craft all the gold nuggets to gold ingots.

## Overworld - Bedrock version
For Bedrock Edition there is only one way to make a portal system function properly in the overworld. You need a portal of 23×23 with an activation + deactivation system and a catch system for the zombified piglins to fall in.

We have two options at our disposal for the activation system.

1. A dispenser with flint and steel in it, with a redstone clock attached to ignite the portal every self set amount of ticks. Positive: A cheap way to light portal. Negative: You need lots of flint and steel, because they wear out pretty quickly.
2. With lava on top of observers, that update trapdoors next to it. This attempts to ignite the portal every game tick. The lava must be exposed to air above. Positive: System always works, without extra supplies. Negative: Observers are not cheap to craft and you generally need 6 to start with.

The deactivation system has to be done with a dispenser containing a water bucket. A redstone clock let the dispenser dispense the water every self-set amount of ticks.

** Manual farm **
You can make a cheap and simple manual farm, where you just catch the mobs as they spawn from the portal, then transport them to a kill chamber for manual killing. 
This would be the cheapest way to construct the farm. 

With the maximum looting on a sword, you'll get XP, gold nuggets, gold ingots, rotten flesh and gold swords. The swords can be smelted down to gold nuggets as well. 

Some swords are also enchanted and before smelting them, you could use a grindstone to un-enchant them and receive extra XP from them.

This video shows how to make a manual killing farm:




** Falling farm **
The next option that is fairly cheap to construct a farm, is a falling farm. We catch the zombified piglins after spawning and transport them to a drop chute. Where after a fall of more than 24 blocks they die and drop gold nuggets and rotten flesh.

** Fall breaker farm **
Instead of letting the zombified piglins fall to their death, we can also use a fall breaker to make sure they get damaged, but don't die. 
This allows us to use a looting sword to get XP, gold nuggets, gold ingots, golden swords and rotten flesh. Depending on the height of the drop, you can make sure that you could kill the zombified piglins with one blow. Making it easy to kill and less hard on your sword in terms of durability.

** Automatic farm **
When we place a trident killer at the bottom of the drop chute, we instantly have a farm that kills the zombified piglins automatically. The trident killer consists of a kill chamber with pistons and a trident in the middle. The pistons push the zombified piglins around and against the trident. This way they get damaged each time they hit the trident, until they die.
This then gives us XP, rotten flesh, gold nuggets, gold ingots and golden swords.
If we hold a looting sword when in the area of the farm, the looting is transferred onto the trident and we get more loot with each kill. 

This video shows how to make a fully automatic farm with a complete sorting system underneath and furnaces for smelting the swords:




## Item filtering
Main article: Tutorials/Hopper § Item sorting
It is also possible to make a fully automatic farm using a more advanced setup. Because many of the zombified piglin farms produce a significant amount of golden swords, which may quickly clog up a player's storage system, an item filtering system can be used to filter out the rotten flesh, gold nuggets, and gold ingots. A redstone clock can be installed to a dispenser, and if hooked up correctly, the item filtering system can be used to spit the swords into a furnace that can then be smelted into golden nuggets. 

| Introductory      |                                                                                                                                                                           |
|-------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Basics            | Menu screen<br/>Game terms<br/>                                                                                                                                           |
| Newcomer survival | The first day/beginner's guide<br/>The second day<br/>The third day<br/>Hunger management<br/>Things not to do<br/>Simple tips and tricks<br/>Your first ten minutes<br/> |
| Shelters          | Best biomes for homes<br/>Best building materials<br/>Building and construction<br/>Navigation<br/>Shelters<br/>Shelter types<br/>                                        |

| General                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|----------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| General                    | Achievement guide<br/>Advancement guide<br/>Best enchantments guide<br/>Breaking a fall<br/>Breaking bedrock<br/>Combat<br/>Complete main adventure<br/>Creating a village<br/>Downgrading<br/>Dual wielding<br/>End survival<br/>Exploring caverns<br/>Gathering resources on peaceful difficulty<br/>Getting food quickly<br/>Headless pistons<br/>Hitboxes<br/>Horses<br/>Indestructible end crystals<br/>Mapping<br/>Measuring distance<br/>Minecraft in education<br/>Mining Diamonds Fossils Ancient Debris<br/>Diamonds<br/>Fossils<br/>Ancient Debris<br/>Nether hub<br/>Nether portals<br/>Nether survival<br/>Organization<br/>Pillar jumping<br/>Playing with a controller<br/>PvP PvP bases<br/>PvP bases<br/>Spawn-proofing<br/>Summoning jockeys<br/>The Void<br/>Time-saving tips<br/>Thunderstorm survival<br/>Units of measure<br/>Village mechanics Trading<br/>Trading<br/>X-ray glitches<br/> |
| Enchanting<br/>andsmelting | Enchanting mechanics<br/>Anvil mechanics<br/>Automatic smelting<br/>Manual smelting<br/>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |

| Challenges                |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
|---------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| General                   | Acquiring a conduit<br/>Curing a zombie villager<br/>Defeating temples<br/>Defeating a village raid<br/>Defeating a Nether fortress<br/>Defeating a bastion remnant<br/>Defeating a monster room<br/>Defeating a pillager outpost<br/>Defeating a woodland mansion<br/>Defeating a monument<br/>Defeating an End city<br/>Defeating the Ender dragon<br/>Defeating the Wither<br/>Exploring an ancient city<br/>Obtaining every music disc<br/> |
| Non-standard<br/>survival | Adventure survival<br/>Half hearted hardcore<br/>Hardcore mode<br/>Surviving in a single area indefinitely<br/>Infinite desert survival<br/>Island survival<br/>Manhunt<br/>Mob switch<br/>Nomadic experience<br/>Skywars survival<br/>Superflat survival<br/>Flat survival<br/>Ultra hardcore survival<br/>                                                                                                                                    |
| Challenge maps            | Beating a challenge map<br/>Creating a challenge map<br/>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |

| Constructions |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
|---------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Constructions | Adding beauty to constructions<br/>Airlock<br/>Architectural terms<br/>Building a cruise ship<br/>Building a metropolis<br/>Building a rollercoaster<br/>Building safe homes<br/>Building water features<br/>Color palette<br/>Creating shapes<br/>Defense<br/>Desert shelter<br/>Elevators<br/>Endless circling pool<br/>Furniture<br/>Glazed terracotta patterns<br/>Making nice floors<br/>Pixel art<br/>Ranches<br/>Roof types Curved roofs Roof construction guidelines Roof decorations<br/>Curved roofs<br/>Roof construction guidelines<br/>Roof decorations<br/>Secret door<br/>Settlement guide<br/>Underwater home<br/>Walls and buttresses<br/>Water gate<br/>Water-powered boat transportation<br/> |
| Blockbreaking | Blast chamber<br/>Igniting TNT underwater<br/>Wither cage<br/>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |

| Farming        |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
|----------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Blocksanditems | Amethyst<br/>Armor<br/>Azalea<br/>Bamboo<br/>Basalt<br/>Bedrock<br/>Blaze rod<br/>Bone meal<br/>Cactus<br/>Chorus fruit<br/>Clay and mud<br/>Cobblestone<br/>Cocoa bean<br/>Copper<br/>Crops (Beetroot, Carrot, Potato, Wheat)<br/>Dirt<br/>Dragon's Breath<br/>Dripstone<br/>Egg<br/>Fern<br/>Fish<br/>Flower<br/>Froglight<br/>Glow berries<br/>Glow ink sac<br/>Glow lichen<br/>Goat horn<br/>Gold<br/>Hanging roots<br/>Honey<br/>Ice<br/>Iron<br/>Kelp<br/>Lava<br/>Meat<br/>Moss block<br/>Mushroom<br/>Music disc<br/>Nautilus shell<br/>Nether growth<br/>Nether vine<br/>Nether wart<br/>Obsidian<br/>Powder snow<br/>Pumpkin, Melon<br/>Rooted dirt<br/>Sculk growths<br/>Scute<br/>Seagrass<br/>Sea pickle<br/>Snow<br/>Soul soil<br/>Sugar cane<br/>Sweet berries<br/>Tree<br/>Trident<br/>Vine<br/>Villager trading hall<br/>Wither rose<br/>Wool<br/>Duplication<br/> |
| Mobs           | Mob farming<br/>Mob grinding<br/>Monster spawner traps<br/>Allay<br/>Animals<br/>Axolotl<br/>Blaze<br/>Cat<br/>Cave spider<br/>Creeper<br/>Drowned<br/>Ender dragon<br/>Enderman<br/>Frog<br/>Goat<br/>Guardian<br/>Hoglin<br/>Iron golem<br/>Magma cube<br/>Phantom<br/>Piglin bartering farm<br/>Raid<br/>Shulker<br/>Slime<br/>Squid<br/>Turtle<br/>Villager<br/>Wandering trader<br/>Warden<br/>Witch<br/>Wither<br/>Wither skeleton<br/>Zombie<br/>Zombie villager<br/>Zombified piglin<br/>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |

| Mechanisms            |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
|-----------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Basicredstone         | Automatic respawn anchor recharger<br/>Basic logic gates<br/>Combination locks<br/>Command block<br/>Flying machines<br/>Hopper<br/>Item sorting<br/>Item transportation<br/>Mechanisms<br/>Observer stabilizer<br/>Randomizers<br/>Redstone music<br/>Redstone tips<br/>Rube Goldberg machine<br/>Shulker box storage<br/>Villager trading hall*Water tram<br/> |
| Detectors             | Block update detector<br/>Comparator update detector<br/>Daylight detector<br/>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| Minecarts             | Train station<br/>Minecarts Storage Storage system<br/>Storage<br/>Storage system<br/>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| Traps                 | Snow golems<br/>TNT cannons<br/>Trapdoor uses<br/>Trap design<br/>Traps<br/>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| Pistons               | Piston uses<br/>Piston circuits<br/>Quasi-connectivity<br/>Zero-ticking<br/>Instant repeaters<br/>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| Advanced<br/>redstone | Advanced redstone circuits<br/>Arithmetic logic<br/>Calculator<br/>Command stats<br/>Hourly clock<br/>Morse code<br/>Printer<br/>Redstone computers<br/>Redstone telegraph<br/>                                                                                                                                                                                  |

| Servers      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
|--------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| General      | Playing on servers<br/>Multiplayer Survival<br/>Spawn jail<br/>Griefing prevention<br/>Joining a LAN world with alternate accounts<br/>                                                                                                                              |
| Server setup | Setting up a server<br/>Server startup script<br/>FreeBSD startup script<br/>OpenBSD startup script<br/>Ubuntu startup script<br/>Setting up a Hamachi server<br/>Setting up a Minecraft Forge server<br/>Setting up a Spigot server<br/>Ramdisk enabled server<br/> |

| Technical                   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
|-----------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Technical                   | Improving frame rate<br/>Minecraft help FAQ (IRC channel)<br/>Running the data generator<br/>Update Java<br/>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| Maps                        | Custom maps<br/>Map downloads<br/>Command NBT tags<br/>Falling blocks<br/>Updating old terrain using MCEdit<br/>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| Resource packs              | Creating a resource pack<br/>Loading a resource pack<br/>Sound directory<br/>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| Data packs                  | Creating a data pack<br/>Installing a data pack<br/>Custom world generation<br/>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| Creating<br/>Minecraftmedia | Creating videos<br/>Livestreaming<br/>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| Game installation           | Installing snapshots<br/>Installing Minecraft Preview and beta versions<br/>How to get a crash report<br/>Installing Forge mods<br/>Custom Minecraft directory<br/>Playing and saving Minecraft on a thumb drive<br/>Playing and saving Minecraft on a thumb drive with the old launcher<br/>Recover corrupted saved world data<br/>Run Minecraft through Google Drive<br/>Save game data to Dropbox (world data only)<br/>Saved data Dropbox guide<br/> |

| Outdated |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
|----------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Outdated | Building micro shelters<br/>Custom texture packs<br/>Door-based iron golem farming<br/>End of light mob farms<br/>Far Lands<br/>How to get a crash report<br/>Installing mods<br/>Man-made lake<br/>Managing slimes in superflat mode<br/>Minecart booster<br/>Potion farming<br/>Repeater reboot system<br/>Survival with no enabled data packs<br/>Update LWJGL<br/>Update Minecraft<br/>Village chaining<br/>Water ladder<br/> |

