# Enchanting
Enchanting is a mechanic that augments armor, tools, weapons, and books with a variety of enchantments that improve an item's existing abilities or imbue them with additional abilities and uses. A 'purple glint' animation appears on items to show that they are enchanted.

## Contents
- 1 Enchanting equipment
- 2 Enchanting methods
	- 2.1 Enchanting table
		- 2.1.1 Affecting offered enchantments
	- 2.2 Anvil combinations
	- 2.3 Enchanted books
		- 2.3.1 Best Enchanting order
- 3 Disenchanting
- 4 Summary of enchantments
- 5 Summary of enchantments by item
- 6 Maximum effective values for enchantments
- 7 Item data
- 8 Sounds
- 9 Videos
- 10 History
- 11 Issues
- 12 Gallery
	- 12.1 Screenshots
	- 12.2 Development images
- 13 See also
- 14 References

## Enchanting equipment
| Name             | Icon | Usage                                                                                                                                                  |
|------------------|------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Enchanting Table |      | Used to enchant items.                                                                                                                                 |
| Bookshelf        |      | Each bookshelf (up to 15) increases the level of the enchantments given by the enchanting table.                                                       |
| Lapis Lazuli     |      | Required to power the enchanting table (up to three per item).                                                                                         |
| Anvil            |      | Used to combine enchanted items (tools, armor, weapons, etc.), add enchantments from books, or repair an enchanted item while preserving enchantments. |
| Grindstone       |      | Used to remove all non-curse enchantments on an item, returning a small amount of experience, and optionally repair an item for no experience.         |
| Enchanted Book   |      | Can be combined with another item through an anvil to add certain enchantments to the item.                                                            |

## Enchanting methods
An enchanting table surrounded by bookshelves.
There are four ways to enchant an item in Survival mode:

- Through an enchanting table in exchange forexperiencepoints and lapis lazuli. Only unenchanted items may be enchanted this way.
- Through ananvil, combining anenchanted bookwith an item.
- Through an anvil, combining two of the same item with different existing enchantments into a single item that has the enchantments of both.
- Through alibrarian villager, which may enchant books respectively for emeralds instead of lapis lazuli and experience, which instead gives the player experience just like everytrade.

A player may also obtain items already enchanted:

- Through a villager, who may trade some enchanted items foremeralds.
- Byfishing, which gives a chance of obtaining enchanted items.
- Through azombie,drowned,husk,piglin,skeleton,bogged,stray,wither skeleton, andzombified piglinif they have enchanted items and are killed by aplayer. They have an 8.5% chance to drop each individual item.
- By finding them in treasure chests in locations such asend cities,ancient cities,shipwrecks,mineshafts,dungeons,desert temples,jungle temples,woodland mansions,ocean ruins,strongholds,ruined portals,pillager outposts, andbastion remnants.
- Due tobarteringwith piglins. When given gold, piglins have a small chance to drop an enchantedbookoriron bootswith theSoul Speedenchantment (random level 1-3).
- Through killingpillagersandvindicatorsinraidsonBedrock Edition.

Server operators and players in singleplayer worlds with cheats enabled can also enchant items using commands such as /enchant. When enchanted with the /give command, the maximum enchantment level is 255 on Java Edition. In Creative mode, items can be enchanted via an anvil and enchanted books, with no experience points required. Enchanted books are available in the Creative mode inventory, with individual book displays for the highest level of each enchantment and other levels available via the "Search" tab.

### Enchanting table
Main article: Enchanting mechanics
Enchanting table interface.
An item can be enchanted by using an enchanting table and placing the item in the input slots and 1–3 lapis lazuli in its dedicated slot. Upon placing the item, three (pseudo)randomized options appear on the right of the GUI. The glyphs here do not affect the enchantment, but hovering over a presented enchantment shows one enchantment to be applied (on mobile devices, the player can tap an enchantment before putting in the lapis lazuli or hold the enchantment before release). The only choices available have a level requirement equal to or below the player's current level and a lapis lazuli requirement equal to or below the number of lapis lazuli placed in the table. Each option imbues the item with a randomized set of enchantments that are dependent on the number of experience levels required (e.g. a level 10 enchantment can give a pickaxe the "Efficiency II" enchantment); the actual level cost and the number of lapis lazuli required have no effect.

Although the player must have at least the level requirement to get an enchantment, the number of levels that the player is charged is the same as the lapis lazuli requirement. For example, if the third enchantment listed is a level 30 enchantment, the player must have at least 30 levels, but pay only 3 levels and 3 lapis lazuli.

The level requirement influences the quantity, type, and level of enchantments instilled in the item, with a higher experience level generally resulting in more and/or higher-level enchantments. Nevertheless, there is a significant random factor, and even a level 30 enchantment (the maximum) doesn't guarantee more than one enchantment, or even that enchantments are "maximum strength" — a level 30 enchantment can still yield Fortune II or Efficiency III alone, for example. On the other hand, it is possible for multiple different enchantments to be given from one use of the enchanting table. For example, a level 30 enchantment applied to a pickaxe may yield both Efficiency IV and Unbreaking III. However, certain selected enchants never give any additional enchantment, regardless of which tool is enchanted, such as Efficiency IV and Knockback II. ‌[BE  only] (Needs verifying).

To increase the enchantment level, bookshelves can be placed next to the enchanting table while keeping one block of air between them. To gain access to the previously mentioned level 30 enchantments, a total of 15 bookshelves need to be placed around the enchanting table. See the Enchantment Mechanics page for more detailed information on this.

Enchanting a book produces an enchanted book, which does nothing on its own, but effectively "saves" the enchantment for later application to another item with an anvil.

Unlike with an anvil, using the enchanting table while on Creative still costs experience. However, if the player doesn't have enough experience, then experience reduces to zero and the enchantment still works, even when using the enchanting table while already at level zero.

#### Affecting offered enchantments
Enchanting any item at any enchantment level changes the player's enchantment seed, which changes the possible enchantments for every item at every enchantment level. Thus, if none of the available enchantments for a tool are desired, 1 lapis lazuli and 1 level could be spent to enchant a book or a different tool to refresh the list.

The possible enchantments depend on the player's enchantment seed, the item type, and material, and the enchantment level (1–30). The following actions do not affect the possible enchantments:

- removing the item and putting it back in
- clicking on the item slot with a different item
- using a different item of the same type and material
- replacing or moving the table (but keeping the same number of bookshelves)
- using a different table with the same number of bookshelves, or
- replacing or rearranging the bookshelves without changing their total number.

Changing the enchantment levels offered by adding, removing, or blocking bookshelves alters the enchantments shown, but does not change possible enchantments; using another enchanting table with the previous bookshelf number still shows the previous enchantments. The enchantments for a particular enchantment level (with the same seed and item) do also differ depending on which row they appear in, but they are not "better" or "worse" based on the row despite the different resource costs.

### Anvil combinations
Main article: Anvil mechanics
An anvil can be used to combine the enchantments of two items, sacrificing one of them and repairing the other. The items must be compatible; they must either be the same type and material (such as two iron swords) or an item and an enchanted book with an applicable enchantment (such as a bow and an Infinity enchanted book).

Combining two enchanted items, books or one of each with the same enchantment at the same level produces an item or book with the next higher level of that enchantment up to the maximum allowed in Survival mode; for example, a book with Thorns I and Unbreaking II combined with a book with Unbreaking II produces a book with Thorns I and Unbreaking III.

To combine items, the player places the target item in the anvil's first slot and the sacrifice item in the second slot. If the combination is allowed, the resulting enchanted item appears in the anvil's output slot and an experience level cost, labeled "Enchantment Cost", appears below (green if the player has enough experience levels, red if they don't). To complete the enchanting, the player removes the enchanted item from the anvil's output slot, and their experience level is reduced accordingly.

The experience cost depends on the enchantments, with highly enchanted items costing more. If the target item is also being repaired, that costs more as well. The target item can also be renamed, at additional cost. There is also an accumulating surcharge for prior work done on anvils. In Survival mode, work that costs more than 39 levels of experience is refused although it may still be possible to perform the same work in steps. For example, a damaged enchanted bow may be repaired on an anvil with an ordinary bow, and then another enchanted bow may be used to combine enchantments with the repaired bow.

### Enchanted books
Main article: Enchanted Book
Enchanted books can be made by enchanting a book in an enchanting table at the cost of experience points. They can also be found in the chests of several structures, purchased with emeralds from a librarian villager, or caught while fishing.

Enchanted books can be applied to tools, weapons, and armor, or combined with other enchanted books in an anvil. In this way, some enchantments that cannot normally be obtained on an item through use of the enchanting table can still be applied to those items, such as applying Thorns to boots.

Although enchanted books can have multiple enchantments of any type, only enchantments appropriate to a given item type are applied to that item when combined in an anvil. For example, an enchanted book may have both the Respiration and Power enchantments, but the Respiration enchantment is lost if the book is applied to anything but a helmet. Likewise, the Power enchantment is lost if the book is applied to anything but a bow.

In Creative mode, enchanted books can be used to apply any enchantment to any item, such as a stick having Knockback II on Java Edition. However, mutually-exclusive enchantments, such as Infinity and Mending, cannot be applied this way or even via /enchant (though both enchantments function as normal when obtained on a bow through the /give command).

The experience costs for using books are considerably less than for combining items with similar enchantments since the books themselves cost levels to create. However, it's still an extra cost, and enchanting items directly has a chance to get multiple enchantments. The advantage of books is that they can be stockpiled for use on an item of choice and allow for controlled combinations. For example, a Silk Touch book can be used on an axe, pickaxe, or shovel, and the player can decide which item receives which enchantment.

#### Best Enchanting order
Use Order Calculator to minimize experience loss when merging two items.

## Disenchanting
The only way to disenchant items is via the grindstone or by repairing the items via the crafting grid. Using the grindstone removes all enchantments (except for Curse of Binding and Curse of Vanishing) but gives some experience back based on the level of the enchantment(s) and their value.

## Summary of enchantments
See also: Enchanting/Levels

Each enchantment in the table below includes attributes that are possible for the player to acquire legitimately in Survival mode. Other combinations are possible in Creative mode or with cheats, mods, or third-party software.

- Max Level:Maximum levels for enchantments vary, but the game can comprehend up to 32-bit integer values (−231to 231−1). Exceeding this value results in an overflow, and eventually resets itself to 0.
- Primary Items:The items that can receive the enchantment legitimately in Survival mode by using an enchanting table. Items of any material can be enchanted (some more easily than others – seeEnchantment mechanics).
- Secondary Items:Items that, in Survival mode, cannot receive the enchantment from an enchanting table but can from an enchanted book with an anvil.
- Weight:Relative probability of the enchantment being offered.

| Name                                    | Summary                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Treasure[note 1] | IncompatibleWith                                         | MaxLevel | PrimaryItems                      | SecondaryItems | Weight |
|-----------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------|----------------------------------------------------------|----------|-----------------------------------|----------------|--------|
| Aqua Affinity                           | Increases underwater mining speed.                                                                                                                                                                                                    | No               |                                                          | I        |                                   |                | 2      |
| Bane of Arthropods                      | Increases damage and appliesSlownessIV toarthropodmobs (spiders, cave spiders, silverfish, endermites and bees).                                                                                                                      | No               | Smite, Sharpness                                         | V        | ‌[BE  only]‌[upcoming: JE 1.20.5] | ‌[JE  only]    | 5      |
| Blast Protection                        | Reduces explosion damage and knockback.<br/>                                                                                                                                                                                          | No               | Fire Protection, Protection, Projectile Protection       | IV       |                                   |                | 2      |
| Breach                                  | Reduces the effectiveness of thearmoron the target. The armor's effectiveness is reduced by 15% per level.                                                                                                                            | No               |                                                          | IV       |                                   |                | 4      |
| Channeling                              | During thunderstorms, a thrown trident summons a lightning bolt on the target when hitting it.                                                                                                                                        | No               | Riptide                                                  | I        |                                   |                | 1      |
| Cleaving‌[upcoming: JE Combat Tests]    | Increases damage and shield stun time.<br/>                                                                                                                                                                                           | Unknown          | Sharpness, Bane of Arthropods, Smite                     | III      |                                   |                |        |
| Curse of Binding<br/>                   | Items cannot be removed from armor slots.                                                                                                                                                                                             | Yes              |                                                          | I        |                                   |                | 1      |
| Curse of Vanishing<br/>                 | Item disappears on death.                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Yes              |                                                          | I        |                                   | ‌[BE  only]    | 1      |
| Density                                 | Increases the damage dealt per block fallen, increasing by 1 per level.                                                                                                                                                               | No               |                                                          | V        |                                   |                | 5      |
| Depth Strider                           | Increases underwater movement speed.<br/>                                                                                                                                                                                             | No               | Frost Walker                                             | III      |                                   |                | 2      |
| Efficiency                              | Increases mining speed.                                                                                                                                                                                                               | No               |                                                          | V        |                                   |                | 10     |
| Feather Falling                         | Reduces fall damage.                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | No               |                                                          | IV       |                                   |                | 5      |
| Fire Aspect                             | Sets target on fire.                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | No               |                                                          | II       | <br/>‌[upcoming: JE Combat Tests] |                | 2      |
| Fire Protection                         | Reduces fire damage and burn time.                                                                                                                                                                                                    | No               | Blast Protection, Protection, Projectile Protection      | IV       |                                   |                | 5      |
| Flame                                   | Arrows shot are ignited and deal fire damage to the target.                                                                                                                                                                           | No               |                                                          | I        |                                   |                | 2      |
| Fortune                                 | Increases the amount of block drops.                                                                                                                                                                                                  | No               | Silk Touch                                               | III      |                                   |                | 2      |
| Frost Walker                            | Freezes the water under the player's feet, allowing them to walk over water.                                                                                                                                                          | Yes              | Depth Strider                                            | II       |                                   |                | 2      |
| Impaling                                | Increases damage against aquatic mobs. InBedrock Edition, increases damage against mobs in water or rain.                                                                                                                             | No               |                                                          | V        |                                   |                | 2      |
| Infinity                                | Prevents consumption of arrows.                                                                                                                                                                                                       | No               | Mending                                                  | I        |                                   |                | 1      |
| Knockback                               | Increases melee knockback.                                                                                                                                                                                                            | No               |                                                          | II       |                                   |                | 5      |
| Looting                                 | Increases mob loot.                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | No               |                                                          | III      |                                   |                | 2      |
| Loyalty                                 | Trident returns after being thrown.                                                                                                                                                                                                   | No               | Riptide                                                  | III      |                                   |                | 5      |
| Luck of the Sea                         | Increases rate of treasure bites (enchanting books, etc.).                                                                                                                                                                            | No               |                                                          | III      |                                   |                | 2      |
| Lure                                    | Decreases time for bites.                                                                                                                                                                                                             | No               |                                                          | III      |                                   |                | 2      |
| Mending                                 | Repairs the item using experience.                                                                                                                                                                                                    | Yes              | Infinity                                                 | I        |                                   |                | 2      |
| Multishot                               | Fires 3 arrows at the same time.                                                                                                                                                                                                      | No               | Piercing                                                 | I        |                                   |                | 2      |
| Piercing                                | Arrows pierce entities, allowing for arrows to pierce through stacks of mobs.                                                                                                                                                         | No               | Multishot                                                | IV       |                                   |                | 10     |
| Power                                   | Increases arrow damage.                                                                                                                                                                                                               | No               |                                                          | V        |                                   |                | 10     |
| Projectile Protection                   | Reduces damage from projectiles.                                                                                                                                                                                                      | No               | Protection, Blast Protection, Fire Protection            | IV       |                                   |                | 5      |
| Protection                              | Reduces most forms of damage.                                                                                                                                                                                                         | No               | Blast Protection, Fire Protection, Projectile Protection | IV       |                                   |                | 10     |
| Punch                                   | Increases arrow knockback.                                                                                                                                                                                                            | No               |                                                          | II       |                                   |                | 2      |
| Quick Charge                            | Decreases crossbow charging time.                                                                                                                                                                                                     | No               |                                                          | III      |                                   |                | 5      |
| Respiration                             | Extends underwater breathing time.                                                                                                                                                                                                    | No               |                                                          | III      |                                   |                | 2      |
| Riptide                                 | Trident launches player with itself when thrown while in water or rain.                                                                                                                                                               | No               | Channeling, Loyalty                                      | III      |                                   |                | 2      |
| Sharpness                               | Increases melee damage.                                                                                                                                                                                                               | No               | Bane of Arthropods, Smite                                | V        | ‌[BE  only]‌[upcoming: JE 1.20.5] | ‌[JE  only]    | 10     |
| Silk Touch                              | Mined blocks drop themselves.                                                                                                                                                                                                         | No               | Fortune                                                  | I        |                                   | ‌[BE  only]    | 1      |
| Smite                                   | Increases damage tothe undead.                                                                                                                                                                                                        | No               | Bane of Arthropods, Sharpness                            | V        | ‌[BE  only]‌[upcoming: JE 1.20.5] | ‌[JE  only]    | 5      |
| Soul Speed                              | Increases movement speed onsoul sandandsoul soil.                                                                                                                                                                                     | Yes              |                                                          | III      |                                   |                | 1      |
| Sweeping Edge<br/>‌[Java Edition  only] | Increases sweeping attack damage.                                                                                                                                                                                                     | No               |                                                          | III      |                                   |                | 2      |
| Swift Sneak                             | Increases sneaking speed.                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Yes              |                                                          | III      |                                   |                | 1      |
| Thorns                                  | Taking damage causes the attacker to also take damage.                                                                                                                                                                                | No               |                                                          | III      | <br/>                             |                | 1      |
| Unbreaking                              | Reduces durability damage.                                                                                                                                                                                                            | No               |                                                          | III      |                                   |                | 5      |
| Wind Burst                              | Emits a burst of wind (like that of awind charge) upon executing a mace smash attack on an entity, launching the attacker upward. It can be used to chain smash attacks together, and the strength of the launch increases per level. | Yes              |                                                          | III      |                                   |                | 3      |

1. ↑Treasure enchantments are those that can't be obtained using an enchantment table.

## Summary of enchantments by item
Enchantments that have multiple levels are shown with their maximum level numbers. Mutually exclusive enchantments can be combined using commands (e.g., /give @s bow{Enchantments:[{id:infinity,lvl:1},{id:mending,lvl:1}]} 1). Also, a player can exceed the maximum levels of enchantments (e.g., /give @s netherite_sword{Enchantments:[{id:fire_aspect,lvl:10}]} 1). However, if that number goes above 10, it looks like this: 

Crafting
[1]

| Item                        | Any combination of                                                                          | Only one from each column                                                                    |                                                                                               |
|-----------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Helmet                      | Mending,Unbreaking III,Thorns III,Respiration III,Aqua Affinity                             | Protection IV,<br/>Projectile Protection IV,<br/>Fire Protection IV,<br/>Blast Protection IV |                                                                                               |
| Turtle Shell                |                                                                                             |                                                                                              |                                                                                               |
| Chestplate                  | Mending,Unbreaking III,Thorns III                                                           |                                                                                              |                                                                                               |
| Leggings                    | Mending,Unbreaking III,Thorns III,Swift Sneak III                                           |                                                                                              |                                                                                               |
| Boots                       | Mending,Unbreaking III,Thorns III,Feather Falling IV,Soul Speed III                         |                                                                                              | Depth Strider III<br/>Frost Walker II                                                         |
| Sword                       | Mending,Unbreaking III,Fire Aspect II,Looting III,Knockback II,Sweeping Edge III‌[JE  only] | Sharpness V,<br/>Smite V,<br/>Bane of Arthropods V                                           |                                                                                               |
| Mace                        | Mending,Unbreaking III,Fire Aspect II,Breach IV,Density V,Wind Burst III                    | Smite V,<br/>Bane of Arthropods V                                                            |                                                                                               |
| Axe                         | Mending,Unbreaking III,Efficiency V[2]                                                      | Fortune III,<br/>Silk Touch                                                                  | Sharpness V<br/>Smite V<br/>Bane of Arthropods V<br/>Cleaving III‌[upcoming: JE Combat Tests] |
| Pickaxe                     |                                                                                             |                                                                                              |                                                                                               |
| Shovel                      |                                                                                             |                                                                                              |                                                                                               |
| Hoe                         |                                                                                             |                                                                                              |                                                                                               |
| Bow                         | Unbreaking III,Power V,Punch II,Flame                                                       | Infinity,<br/>Mending                                                                        |                                                                                               |
| Fishing Rod                 | Mending,Unbreaking III,Lure III,Luck of the Sea III                                         |                                                                                              |                                                                                               |
| Trident                     | Mending,Unbreaking III,Impaling V                                                           | Channeling                                                                                   | Loyalty III                                                                                   |
|                             |                                                                                             |                                                                                              | Riptide III[note 1]                                                                           |
| Crossbow                    | Mending,Unbreaking III,Quick Charge III                                                     | Piercing IV,<br/>Multishot                                                                   |                                                                                               |
| Shears                      | Mending,Unbreaking III,Efficiency V,Silk Touch‌[BE  only]                                   |                                                                                              |                                                                                               |
| Shield                      | Mending,Unbreaking III                                                                      |                                                                                              |                                                                                               |
| Elytra                      |                                                                                             |                                                                                              |                                                                                               |
| Flint and Steel             |                                                                                             |                                                                                              |                                                                                               |
| Carrot on a Stick           |                                                                                             |                                                                                              |                                                                                               |
| Warped Fungus on a Stick    |                                                                                             |                                                                                              |                                                                                               |
| Brush                       |                                                                                             |                                                                                              |                                                                                               |
| Compass                     | Curse of Vanishing                                                                          |                                                                                              |                                                                                               |
| Recovery Compass‌[BE  only] |                                                                                             |                                                                                              |                                                                                               |

1. ↑Channeling and Loyalty can be used together but neither can be used with Riptide.

The tables below summarize the enchantments that can be obtained on specific items in Bedrock Edition and in Java Edition Survival mode (Any enchantment can be applied to any item in Java Edition Creative mode). Enchantments that can be applied to both hand slot items and armor slot items are listed in both tables.

- An enchanting tableindicates the item can receive the enchantment from anenchanting table.
- An anvilindicates the itemcannotreceive the enchantment from an enchanting table (an enchanting table never offers the enchantment for the item), but can receive the enchantment by another method (for example, using ananvilto combine the item with an enchanted book or another enchanted item; note the enchanting tablecouldstill apply the enchantment to the item as a random additional enchantment).

| Enchantment (Max)                          |  | ‌[JE  only] | ‌[BE  only]‌[upcoming: JE 1.20.5] |  |             |  |  |  |  |  | ‌[BE  only] |
|--------------------------------------------|--|-------------|-----------------------------------|--|-------------|--|--|--|--|--|-------------|
| Bane of Arthropods(V)                      |  |             |                                   |  |             |  |  |  |  |  |             |
| Channeling(I)                              |  |             |                                   |  |             |  |  |  |  |  |             |
| Cleaving(III) ‌[upcoming: JE Combat Tests] |  |             |                                   |  |             |  |  |  |  |  |             |
| Curse of Vanishing(I)                      |  |             |                                   |  |             |  |  |  |  |  |             |
| Efficiency(V)                              |  |             |                                   |  |             |  |  |  |  |  |             |
| Fire Aspect(II)                            |  |             |                                   |  |             |  |  |  |  |  |             |
| Flame(I)                                   |  |             |                                   |  |             |  |  |  |  |  |             |
| Fortune(III)                               |  |             |                                   |  |             |  |  |  |  |  |             |
| Impaling(V)                                |  |             |                                   |  |             |  |  |  |  |  |             |
| Infinity(I)                                |  |             |                                   |  |             |  |  |  |  |  |             |
| Knockback(II)                              |  |             |                                   |  |             |  |  |  |  |  |             |
| Looting(III)                               |  |             |                                   |  |             |  |  |  |  |  |             |
| Loyalty(III)                               |  |             |                                   |  |             |  |  |  |  |  |             |
| Luck of the Sea(III)                       |  |             |                                   |  |             |  |  |  |  |  |             |
| Lure(III)                                  |  |             |                                   |  |             |  |  |  |  |  |             |
| Mending(I)                                 |  |             |                                   |  |             |  |  |  |  |  |             |
| Multishot(I)                               |  |             |                                   |  |             |  |  |  |  |  |             |
| Piercing(IV)                               |  |             |                                   |  |             |  |  |  |  |  |             |
| Power(V)                                   |  |             |                                   |  |             |  |  |  |  |  |             |
| Punch(II)                                  |  |             |                                   |  |             |  |  |  |  |  |             |
| Quick Charge(III)                          |  |             |                                   |  |             |  |  |  |  |  |             |
| Riptide(III)                               |  |             |                                   |  |             |  |  |  |  |  |             |
| Sharpness(V)                               |  |             |                                   |  |             |  |  |  |  |  |             |
| Silk Touch(I)                              |  |             |                                   |  | ‌[BE  only] |  |  |  |  |  |             |
| Smite(V)                                   |  |             |                                   |  |             |  |  |  |  |  |             |
| Sweeping Edge(III)                         |  |             |                                   |  |             |  |  |  |  |  |             |
| Unbreaking(III)                            |  |             |                                   |  |             |  |  |  |  |  |             |

| Enchantment (Max)         |       |  |       |       |  |  |
|---------------------------|-------|--|-------|-------|--|--|
| Aqua Affinity(I)          |       |  |       |       |  |  |
| Blast Protection(IV)      |       |  |       |       |  |  |
| Curse of Binding(I)       |       |  |       |       |  |  |
| Curse of Vanishing(I)     |       |  |       |       |  |  |
| Depth Strider (III)       |       |  |       |       |  |  |
| Feather Falling(IV)       |       |  |       |       |  |  |
| Fire Protection(IV)       |       |  |       |       |  |  |
| Frost Walker(II)          |       |  |       |       |  |  |
| Mending(I)                |       |  |       |       |  |  |
| Projectile Protection(IV) |       |  |       |       |  |  |
| Protection(IV)            |       |  |       |       |  |  |
| Respiration(III)          |       |  |       |       |  |  |
| Soul Speed(III)           |       |  |       |       |  |  |
| Swift Sneak(III)          |       |  |       |       |  |  |
| Thorns(III)               | <br/> |  | <br/> | <br/> |  |  |
| Unbreaking(III)           |       |  |       |       |  |  |

## Maximum effective values for enchantments

  

This section is missing information about a better lead section with a better summary and Also needs information on the New Mace Enchantments. 
Please expand the section to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page.


The table below shows the effective limits for enchantments (also found here).

| Enchantment           | Stackable                                                                      | Effective min                                               | Effective max                                             | Notes                                                                                                                                                                  |
|-----------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Aqua Affinity         | Largest on first in armor                                                      | 1                                                           | 1                                                         |                                                                                                                                                                        |
| Bane of Arthropods    | Adds                                                                           | Single:<br/>-2147483648<br/>Stacked:<br/>-52241757371157708 | Single:<br/>2147483647<br/>Stacked:<br/>52241757371157708 | Adds`2.5 * level`damage<br/>Affects arthropods with slowness amplifier 3 for`1 + random(0, level / 2)`seconds                                                          |
| Blast Protection      | Adds                                                                           | 1                                                           | 10                                                        | Reduces damage by a factor of`min(20, level * 2) / 25`<br/>Reduces explosion knockback by a factor of`level * 0.15`<br/>Higher levels are treated as 10                |
| Channeling            | First                                                                          | 1                                                           | 1                                                         |                                                                                                                                                                        |
| Curse of Binding      | First                                                                          | 1                                                           | 1                                                         |                                                                                                                                                                        |
| Curse of Vanishing    | First                                                                          | 1                                                           | 1                                                         |                                                                                                                                                                        |
| Depth Strider         | Largest on first in armor                                                      | 1                                                           | 3                                                         | Higher levels are treated as 3                                                                                                                                         |
| Efficiency            | First                                                                          | 1                                                           | 255                                                       | Increases mine speed by`level² + 1`<br/>Higher levels are treated as 255                                                                                               |
| Feather Falling       | Adds                                                                           | 1                                                           | 7                                                         | Reduces damage by a factor of`min(20, level * 3) / 25`                                                                                                                 |
| Fire Aspect           | First                                                                          | 1                                                           | 255                                                       | Sets mobs on fire for`level * 4`seconds<br/>Higher levels are treated as 255                                                                                           |
| Fire Protection       | Adds for damage reduction<br/>Largest of first in armor for duration reduction | 1                                                           | 10                                                        | Reduces damage by a factor of`min(20, level * 2) / 25`<br/>Reduces fire duration by a factor of`level * 0.15`                                                          |
| Flame                 | First                                                                          | 1                                                           | 1                                                         |                                                                                                                                                                        |
| Fortune               | First                                                                          | 1                                                           | 255                                                       | Anything that uses the`apply_bonus`loot table function works like this<br/>Higher levels are treated as 255                                                            |
| Frost Walker          | First                                                                          | 1                                                           | 14                                                        | Higher levels are treated as 14                                                                                                                                        |
| Impaling              | Adds                                                                           | Single:<br/>-2147483648<br/>Stacked:<br/>-52241757371157708 | Single:<br/>2147483647<br/>Stacked:<br/>52241757371157708 | Adds`2.5 * level`damage                                                                                                                                                |
| Infinity              | First                                                                          | 1                                                           | 1                                                         |                                                                                                                                                                        |
| Knockback             | First                                                                          | 1                                                           | 255                                                       | Adds`level`knockback strength<br/>Higher levels are treated as 255                                                                                                     |
| Looting               | First                                                                          | 1                                                           | 255                                                       | Higher levels are treated as 255                                                                                                                                       |
| Loyalty               | First                                                                          | 1                                                           | 127                                                       | Increases return speed by`0.05 * level`<br/>Higher levels are treated as 0                                                                                             |
| Luck of the Sea       | First                                                                          | 1                                                           | 255                                                       | Adds`level`luck<br/>Higher levels are treated as 255                                                                                                                   |
| Lure                  | First                                                                          | 1                                                           | 5                                                         | Reduces lure time by`5 * level`seconds<br/>Higher levels prevent fish from appearing                                                                                   |
| Mending               | First                                                                          | 1                                                           | 1                                                         |                                                                                                                                                                        |
| Multishot             | First                                                                          | 1                                                           | 1                                                         |                                                                                                                                                                        |
| Piercing              | First                                                                          | 1                                                           | 127                                                       | Higher levels are treated as 0                                                                                                                                         |
| Power                 | First                                                                          | 1                                                           | 255                                                       | Increases damage by`0.5 * level + 0.5`<br/>Higher levels are treated as 255                                                                                            |
| Projectile Protection | Adds                                                                           | 1                                                           | 10                                                        | Reduces damage by a factor of`min(20, level * 2) / 25`                                                                                                                 |
| Protection            | Adds                                                                           | 1                                                           | 20                                                        | Reduces damage by a factor of`min(20, level) / 25`                                                                                                                     |
| Punch                 | First                                                                          | 1                                                           | 255                                                       | Adds`level * 0.6`knockback strength<br/>Higher levels are treated as 255                                                                                               |
| Quick Charge          | First                                                                          | 1                                                           | 5                                                         | Reduces draw time by`0.25 * level`seconds<br/>Higher levels prevent charging of crossbow                                                                               |
| Respiration           | Largest of first in armor                                                      | 1                                                           | 255                                                       | Causes a`level / (level + 1)`chance not to decrease air level<br/>Higher levels are treated as 255                                                                     |
| Riptide               | First                                                                          | 1                                                           | 1                                                         |                                                                                                                                                                        |
| Sharpness             | Adds                                                                           | 0                                                           | Single:<br/>2147483647<br/>Stacked:<br/>36028799149670399 | Adds`0.5 * max(0, level - 1) + 1`damage                                                                                                                                |
| Silk Touch            | First                                                                          | 1                                                           | 1                                                         |                                                                                                                                                                        |
| Smite                 | Adds                                                                           | Single:<br/>-2147483648<br/>Stacked:<br/>-52241757371157708 | Single:<br/>2147483647<br/>Stacked:<br/>52241757371157708 | Adds`2.5 * level`damage                                                                                                                                                |
| Soul Speed            | First                                                                          | 1                                                           | 255                                                       | Increases speed by`0.03 + (level * 0.0105)`<br/>Higher levels are treated as 255                                                                                       |
| Sweeping Edge         | First                                                                          | 1                                                           | 255                                                       | Increases sweeping damage by a factor of`level / (level + 1)`times the hit's damage<br/>Higher levels are treated as 255                                               |
| Swift Sneak           | Adds                                                                           | 1                                                           | 5                                                         | Increases walking speed while sneaking by`level * 50%`<br/>Higher levels are treated as 5                                                                              |
| Thorns                | Individual Procs                                                               | 1                                                           | 2147483647                                                | Chance of hitting is`0.15 * level`<br/>Deals`level - 10`damage if`level`is 11 or greater, otherwise deals`random(0, 3) + 1`                                            |
| Unbreaking            | First                                                                          | 1                                                           | 255                                                       | Items only have a 1 in`level + 1`chance to take damage. Armor has a`0.6`chance to take damage even if it would otherwise skip it.<br/>Higher levels are treated as 255 |

## Item data
- tag: The item's maintag.

- 
	- Enchantments: Containsenchantmentson this item that affect the way the item works.
		- : A single enchantment.
			- id: The name of the enchantment.
			- lvl: The level of the enchantment, where 1 is level 1. Values are clamped between 0 and 255 when reading.
	- StoredEnchantments: Contains enchantments forenchanted books.
		- : A stored enchantment, identical structure to each enchantment inEnchantments.
	- RepairCost: Number of experience levels to add to the base level cost when repairing, combining, or renaming this item with anAnvil.

