### Flower gradients
In some biomes, the placement of flowers is determined by gradients. These are not affected by the world seed. In Java Edition, gradients are three dimensional and change on the Y level, while in Bedrock Edition they are consistent at every height.

#### Flower forests
In a flower forest, any given coordinate can spawn only one type of flower, resulting in a gradient (pictured below). The gradient runs as follows:

- Dandelion‌[Java Edition  only]
- Poppy
- Allium
- Azure bluet
- Red tulip
- Orange tulip
- White tulip
- Pink tulip
- Oxeye daisy
- Cornflower
- Lily of the valley

In Bedrock Edition, additional randomness is applied during terrain generation, meaning that some flowers might not perfectly align to the gradient.

Peonies, lilacs, and rose bushes generate independently from the gradient. In Java Edition, additional patches of lily of the valley are generated by a separate flower feature that does not follow the gradient and that cannot be regrown using bone meal.[1]

- Flower forest gradient in Java Edition
- Flower forest gradient in Bedrock Edition
- An example of how elevation affects the flower forest gradient in Java Edition

#### Meadows
In meadows, up to 3 gradients intersect and overlap to create complex patterns. Like in flower forests, any given coordinate can spawn only one type of flower. In Java Edition, the individual gradients run as follows:

- Tall grass
- Allium
- Poppy
- Azure bluet
- Dandelion
- Cornflower
- Oxeye daisy
- Short grass

Using bone meal in areas of the gradient where only tall grass or short grass generate does not create any flower.

In Bedrock Edition, the gradients only affect naturally generated vegetation; bone meal completely ignores the gradients and only generates dandelions. The individual gradients run as follows:

- Allium
- Poppy
- Cornflower
- Oxeye daisy
- Azure bluet
- Dandelion
- Short grass
- Nothing

- Meadow flower gradient

#### Plains
Plains and sunflower plains use a simpler gradient that allows tulips to generate only in rare areas where no other kinds of flower can spawn. Flower types are otherwise selected randomly: dandelions, poppies, azure bluets, oxeye daisies, and cornflowers outside the tulip areas (with dandelions being more common than the others), and any type of tulip inside the tulip areas. Sunflowers in sunflower plains generate independently from the gradient.

In Java Edition, this pattern is also applied to dripstone caves and the deep dark, although flowers do not naturally generate there.

- Tulip/Non-tulip gradient in plains
- Tulips grown using bone meal in a dripstone cave in Java Edition.

### Post-generation
See also: Tutorials/Flower farming

When bone meal is applied to a grass block, flowers have a chance of generating instead of short grass on the targeted block and adjacent grass blocks in a 15×5×15 area in Java Edition, or a 7×5×7 area in Bedrock Edition. In most biomes, the generated flower is picked randomly among all possible choices depending on the biome (see § Flower biomes for a chart of flowers that can be grown in each biome). In a few biomes, however, a gradient is applied and the generated flower additionally depends on the X/Y/Z coordinates.

Double flowers, wither roses and torchflowers cannot be obtained this way.

In Bedrock Edition, when bone meal is applied to a small flower (except wither rose and torchflower) that has been placed or generated on top of a grass block, more flowers appear around it without short grass. With the exception of dandelions and poppies, the flowers that form around are the same type as the original flower. In the case of dandelions, poppies occasionally appear, and vice versa for poppies. The flowers can appear up to 3 blocks away from the original, forming a 7×7 square.

Applying bone meal to a double flower (except pitcher plants) results in the flower dropping a copy of itself. This is the only renewable way to obtain double flowers.

### Mob loot
Endermen can pick up small flowers, and drop one if killed while holding it.

Iron golems drop 0–2 poppies on death.

### Trading
Wandering traders may sell any small flower except wither roses and torchflowers for a single emerald.

## Usage
All of the blocks that flowers can be placed on. Dandelions represent small flowers, rose bushes represent large flowers, and wither roses represent additional blocks they can be placed on.
All kinds of flowers can be used as decoration and planted on grass blocks, dirt, coarse dirt, rooted dirt, farmland, podzol, mycelium, moss blocks, mud, or muddy mangrove roots. Wither roses can also be planted on netherrack or soul sand. In Java Edition, wither roses can also be planted on soul soil. One-block-tall flowers can be planted in a flower pot.

All flowers can be crafted into dyes, and all small flowers can be used to craft suspicious stew.

Because flowers are non-solid transparent blocks, they can be used (like torches) to break blocks that fall on them, such as sand.

### Crafting ingredient
| Name                  | Ingredients                                     | Crafting recipe |
|-----------------------|-------------------------------------------------|-----------------|
| Banner Pattern Flower | Paper+<br/>Oxeye Daisy                          |                 |
| Black Dye             | Wither Rose                                     |                 |
| Blue Dye              | Cornflower                                      |                 |
| Cyan Dye              | Pitcher Plant                                   | 2               |
| Light Blue Dye        | Blue Orchid                                     |                 |
| Light Gray Dye        | Azure Bluetor<br/>Oxeye Daisyor<br/>White Tulip |                 |
| Magenta Dye           | Allium                                          |                 |
| Magenta Dye           | Lilac                                           | 2               |
| Orange Dye            | Orange Tulipor<br/>Torchflower                  |                 |
| Pink Dye              | Pink Tulip                                      |                 |
| Pink Dye              | Peony                                           | 2               |
| Red Dye               | Rose Bush                                       | 2               |
| Red Dye               | Poppyor<br/>Red Tulip                           |                 |
| White Dye             | Lily of the Valley                              |                 |
| Yellow Dye            | Dandelion                                       |                 |
| Yellow Dye            | Sunflower                                       | 2               |

