# Health
The health gauge and monitor in Minecraft displays how much damage the player is able to take before dying. It is usually based on a single row of 10 heart icons. Each full heart contains two halves, one health point each (the player normally has 20 maximum health points).

## Contents
- 1 Hearts
- 2 Death
	- 2.1 Player effects
- 3 Entities health
- 4 Achievements
- 5 Advancements
- 6 Video
- 7 History
- 8 Gallery
	- 8.1 Screenshots
	- 8.2 In other media
- 9 References
- 10 External links

## Hearts
The healthbar in survival.
The healthbar on hardcore.
Shaking hearts when the player is at 4 or less.
Hearts make up the health meter for the player in the Survival, Hardcore‌[Java Edition  only] (different texture), and Adventure modes, also for mobs. Each heart represents two hit points. Hit points are lost when players (or mobs) take damage, which can be a percentage of those hearts. However, damage less than 1 isn't visible on the health bar.

If the health meter shows  or less, it begins to shake violently, warning that the player is low on health.

Health can be recovered through several means, both "naturally" and through status effects.

- TheInstant Healtheffect restores health immediately, the amount depending on the source and effect level.
- OnPeacefuldifficulty, the health meter continuously refills over time.
- On other difficulties, health regenerates slowly when the player'shungeris at or above18 ( × 9).
- TheRegenerationeffect makes health regenerate fairly quickly, and the hearts of the health meter bounce in a wave. Aside frompotions of Regeneration, this is also provided bybeaconsandgolden apples. A normalgolden appleprovides it (level II) for 5 seconds, restoring a total of 4. Anenchanted golden appleprovides Regeneration II for 20 seconds, regenerating about 16× 8‌[JE  only]/Regeneration V for 30 seconds, regenerating about 200× 100. ‌[BE  only]
- TheHealth Boosteffect adds 4 () per effect level to the player's total health that can be healed or regenerated by normal means, which is removed when the effect expires. After the effect expires, the player's health may remain above the normal maximum, but the extra health is not recovered once lost to damage. This effect can be gained only through commands or mods. At the levels of 252-256 (with amplifiers 251 to 255), the player has 512 hearts (1024× 512, the "red health" limit for entities).
- TheAbsorptioneffect likewise adds 4for each effect level. Different from the Health Boost effect, this special health cannot be healed or regenerated by normal means. Naturally, it is removed when the effect expires. A normal golden apple provides it (level I) for 2 minutes, providing a total of 4. An enchanted golden apple provides it at higher level (level IV), providing a total of 16× 8. Atotemprovides it (level II) for 5 seconds with a total of 8

Damage is split between the health and armor bars. Each full armor point takes 8% of damage, to a maximum of 80%, rounded up. Armor points also protect less damage (and deal more hearts) with stronger attacks.‌[Java Edition  only]

On Hardcore mode, hearts have a different texture ().

The Poison and Wither effects turn hearts  a sickly green color and  black, respectively. On Hardcore, they turn  when poisoned and  when withered. Freezing in powder snow cause hearts to turn  blue ( on Hardcore mode).

In Creative mode, the player is immune to all forms of damage. In Bedrock Edition, this includes the void and the /kill command.

The player's health bar is invisible while holding or wearing an item that gives negative health points that exceed the player's current health points. For example, the player's default health is 20, and if holding an item with the attribute −21 health, the player can take two hits before dying, regardless of how much damage these hits inflict. The first one deals enough damage to reduce health to 1, and the second one kills the player. If the player uses a modified item to reduce health, sometimes the death screen appears. After clicking respawn, the player would shake in the death position and this can be fixed by ceasing to use the modified item.

Wolves and iron golems are the only mobs that show their remaining health visually. Horses, donkeys, mules, llamas, allays, and the wither [Java Edition only] are the only mobs that regenerate health naturally over time.

## Death
"Dying" redirects here.  For the coloring process, see Dye.
"Death" redirects here.  For the music track, see Minecraft - Volume Alpha.
Mobs leaving red corpses and fire (because of daylight and player-made lightning) in multiplayer.
Death occurs when all of a player or mob's health is depleted.

Upon the death of a player, a death message describing the cause of death is shown to everyone in that world. The death of a player's pet also creates a death message, but one that is shown only to its owner.

The /kill command also instantly brings about death, and a parrot can be instantly killed by feeding it a cookie.‌[JE  only]

Players and most mobs fall on their left side to the ground when killed; the death animation always lasts 20 ticks (1 second). Squid don't have a death animation; spiders, endermites, and silverfish flip upside-down; the ender dragon ascends and explodes. When killed, mobs drop items at the location of death. In Java Edition they also drop experience upon death. In Bedrock Edition, once a fallen body disappears, it turns to dust and drops experience orbs at the disappearance location.

In Java Edition, mobs still count toward the mob cap during their death animation.[1]

In Bedrock Edition, armor stands have a brief death animation when killed with a harming, wither, or poison potion. In Java Edition, summoning an armor stand with no health causes the death animation.[2]

In Minecraft Education, tripod cameras have a death animation when killed by a potion effect.

